Murphy's laws and corollaries

Jump to An Abridged Collection of Interdisciplinary Laws

MURPHY'S LAWS

  1. Nothing is as easy as it looks.
  2. Everything takes longer than you think.
  3. Anything that can go wrong will go wrong.
  4. If there is a possibility of several things going wrong, the one that
     will cause the most damage will be the one to go wrong. Corollary: If
     there is a worse time for something to go wrong, it will happen then.
  5. If anything simply cannot go wrong, it will anyway.
  6. If you perceive that there are four possible ways in which a procedure
     can go wrong, and circumvent these, then a fifth way, unprepared for,
     will promptly develop.
  7. Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.
  8. If everything seems to be going well, you have obviously overlooked
     something.
  9. Nature always sides with the hidden flaw.
 10. Mother nature is a bitch.
 11. It is impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so
     ingenious.
 12. Whenever you set out to do something, something else must be done
     first.
 13. Every solution breeds new problems.
Murphy's Law of Research
     Enough research will tend to support your theory.
Murphy's Law of Copiers
     The legibility of a copy is inversely proportional to its importance.
Murphy's Law of the Open Road:
     When there is a very long road upon which there is a one-way bridge
     placed at random, and there are only two cars on that road, it follows
     that: (1) the two cars are going in opposite directions, and (2) they
     will always meet at the bridge.
Murphy's Law of Thermodynamics
     Things get worse under pressure.
The Murphy Philosophy
     Smile . . . tomorrow will be worse.
Quantization Revision of Murphy's Laws
     Everything goes wrong all at once.
Murphy's Constant
     Matter will be damaged in direct proportion to its value

Murphy's Corollaries

Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.
It is impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so ingenious
Law of the Perversity of Nature (Mrs. Murphy's Corollary):
     You cannot successfully determine beforehand which side of the bread to
     butter.
Corollary (Jenning):
     The chance of the bread falling with the buttered side down is directly
     proportional to the cost of the carpet.

Commentaries

Hill's Commentaries on Murphy's Laws
  1. If we lose much by having things go wrong, take all possible care.
  2. If we have nothing to lose by change, relax.
  3. If we have everything to gain by change, relax.
  4. If it doesn't matter, it does not matter.
O'Toole's Commentary
     Murphy was an optimist.

NBC's Addendum to Murphy's Law

You never run out of things that can go wrong.

Murphy's Military Laws

  1. Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are.
  2. No battle plan ever survives contact with the enemy.
  3. Friendly fire ain't.
  4. The most dangerous thing in the combat zone is an officer with a map.
  5. The problem with taking the easy way out is that the enemy has already
     mined it.
  6. The buddy system is essential to your survival; it gives the enemy
     somebody else to shoot at.
  7. The further you are in advance of your own positions, the more likely
     your artillery will shoot short.
  8. Incoming fire has the right of way.
  9. If your advance is going well, you are walking into an ambush.
 10. The quartermaster has only two sizes, too large and too small.
 11. If you really need an officer in a hurry, take a nap.
 12. The only time suppressive fire works is when it is used on abandoned
     positions.
 13. The only thing more accurate than incoming enemy fire is incoming
     friendly fire.
 14. There is nothing more satisfying that having someone take a shot at
     you, and miss.
 15. Don't be conspicuous. In the combat zone, it draws fire. Out of the
     combat zone, it draws sergeants.
 16. If your sergeant can see you, so can the enemy.

Murphy's Technology Laws

  1. You can never tell which way the train went by looking at the track.
  2. Logic is a systematic method of coming to the wrong conclusion with
     confidence.
  3. Whenever a system becomes completely defined, some damn fool discovers
     something which either abolishes the system or expands it beyond
     recognition.
  4. Technology is dominated by those who manage what they do not
     understand.
  5. If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote programs, then
     the first woodpecker that came along would destroy civilization.
  6. The opulence of the front office decor varies inversely with the
     fundamental solvency of the firm.
  7. The attention span of a computer is only as long as it electrical cord.
  8. An expert is one who knows more and more about less and less until he
     knows absolutely everything about nothing.
  9. Tell a man there are 300 billion stars in the universe and he'll
     believe you. Tell him a bench has wet paint on it and he'll have to
     touch to be sure.
 10. All great discoveries are made by mistake.
 11. Always draw your curves, then plot your reading.
 12. Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.
 13. All's well that ends.
 14. A meeting is an event at which the minutes are kept and the hours are
     lost.
 15. The first myth of management is that it exists.
 16. A failure will not appear till a unit has passed final inspection.
 17. New systems generate new problems.
 18. To err is human, but to really foul things up requires a computer.
 19. We don't know one millionth of one percent about anything.
 20. Any given program, when running, is obsolete.
 21. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
 22. A computer makes as many mistakes in two seconds as 20 men working 20
     years make.
 23. Nothing motivates a man more than to see his boss putting in an honest
     day's work.
 24. Some people manage by the book, even though they don't know who wrote
     the book or even what book.
 25. The primary function of the design engineer is to make things difficult
     for the fabricator and impossible for the serviceman.
 26. To spot the expert, pick the one who predicts the job will take the
     longest and cost the most.
 27. After all is said and done, a hell of a lot more is said than done.
 28. Any circuit design must contain at least one part which is obsolete,
     two parts which are unobtainable and three parts which are still under
     development.
 29. A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a
     simple system that works.
 30. If mathematically you end up with the incorrect answer, try multiplying
     by the page number.
 31. Computers are unreliable, but humans are even more unreliable. Any
     system which depends on human reliability is unreliable.
 32. Give all orders verbally. Never write anything down that might go into
     a "Pearl Harbor File."
 33. Under the most rigorously controlled conditions of pressure,
     temperature, volume, humidity, and other variables the organism will do
     as it damn well pleases.
 34. If you can't understand it, it is intuitively obvious.
 35. The more cordial the buyer's secretary, the greater the odds that the
     competition already has the order.
 36. In designing any type of construction, no overall dimension can be
     totalled correctly after 4:30 p.m. on Friday. The correct total will
     become self-evident at 8:15 a.m. on Monday.
 37. Fill what's empty. Empty what's full. And scratch where it itches.
 38. All things are possible except skiing through a revolving door.
 39. The only perfect science is hind-sight.
 40. Work smarder and not harder and be careful of yor speling.
 41. If it's not in the computer, it doesn't exist.
 42. If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.
 43. When all else fails, read the instructions.
 44. If there is a possibility of several things going wrong the one that
     will cause the most damage will be the one to go wrong.
 45. Everything that goes up must come down.
 46. Any instrument when dropped will roll into the least accessible corner.
 47. Any simple theory will be worded in the most complicated way.
 48. Build a system that even a fool can use and only a fool will want to
     use it.
 49. The degree of technical competence is inversely proportional to the
     level of management.

Murphy's Love Laws

  1. All the good ones are taken.
  2. If the person isn't taken, there's a reason. (corr. to 1)
  3. The nicer someone is, the farther away (s)he is from you.
  4. Brains x Beauty x Availability = Constant.
  5. The amount of love someone feels for you is inversely proportional to
     how much you love them.
  6. Money can't buy love, but it sure gets you a great bargaining position.
  7. The best things in the world are free --- and worth every penny of it.
  8. Every kind action has a not-so-kind reaction.
  9. Nice guys(girls) finish last.
 10. If it seems too good to be true, it probably is.
 11. Availability is a function of time. The minute you get interested is
     the minute they find someone else.

Murphy's Laws of sex

  1. The more beautiful the woman is who loves you, the easier it is to
     leave her with no hard feelings.
  2. Nothing improves with age.
  3. No matter how many times you've had it, if it's offered take it,
     because it'll never be quite the same again.
  4. Sex has no calories.
  5. Sex takes up the least amount of time and causes the most amount of
     trouble.
  6. There is no remedy for sex but more sex.
  7. Sex appeal is 50% what you've got and 50% what people think you've got.
  8. No sex with anyone in the same office.
  9. Sex is like snow; you never know how many inches you are going to get
     or how long it is going to last.
 10. A man in the house is worth two in the street.
 11. If you get them by the balls, their hearts and minds will follow.
 12. Virginity can be cured.
 13. When a man's wife learns to understand him, she usually stops listening
     to him.
 14. Never sleep with anyone crazier than yourself.
 15. The qualities that most attract a woman to a man are usually the same
     ones she can't stand years later.
 16. Sex is dirty only if it's done right.
 17. It is always the wrong time of month.
 18. The best way to hold a man is in your arms.
 19. When the lights are out, all women are beautiful.
 20. Sex is hereditary. If your parents never had it, chances are you won't
     either.
 21. Sow your wild oats on Saturday night -- Then on Sunday pray for crop
     failure.
 22. The younger the better.
 23. The game of love is never called off on account of darkness.
 24. It was not the apple on the tree but the pair on the ground that caused
     the trouble in the garden.
 25. Sex discriminates against the shy and the ugly.
 26. Before you find your handsome prince, you've got to kiss a lot of
     frogs.
 27. There may be some things better than sex, and some things worse than
     sex. But there is nothing exactly like it.
 28. Love your neighbor, but don't get caught.
 29. Love is a hole in the heart.
 30. If the effort that went in research on the female bosom had gone into
     our space program, we would now be running hot-dog stands on the moon.
 31. Love is a matter of chemistry, sex is a matter of physics.
 32. Do it only with the best.
 33. Sex is a three-letter word which needs some old-fashioned four-letter
     words to convey its full meaning.
 34. One good turn gets most of the blankets.
 35. You cannot produce a baby in one month by impregnating nine women.
 36. Love is the triumph of imagination over intelligence.
 37. It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
 38. Thou shalt not commit adultery.....unless in the mood.
 39. Never lie down with a woman who's got more troubles than you.
 40. Abstain from wine, women, and song; mostly song.
 41. Never argue with a women when she's tired -- or rested.
 42. A woman never forgets the men she could have had; a man, the women he
     couldn't.
 43. What matters is not the length of the wand, but the magic in the stick.
 44. It is better to be looked over than overlooked.
 45. Never say no.
 46. A man can be happy with any woman as long as he doesn't love her.
 47. Folks playing leapfrog must complete all jumps.
 48. Beauty is skin deep; ugly goes right to the bone.
 49. Never stand between a fire hydrant and a dog.
 50. A man is only a man, but a good bicycle is a ride.
 51. Love comes in spurts.
 52. The world does not revolve on an axis.
 53. Sex is one of the nine reasons for reincarnation; the other eight are
     unimportant.
 54. Smile, it makes people wonder what you are thinking.
 55. Don't do it if you can't keep it up.
 56. There is no difference between a wise man and a fool when they fall in
     love.
 57. Never go to bed mad, stay up and fight.
 58. Love is the delusion that one woman differs from another.
 59. "This won't hurt, I promise."

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

An Abridged Collection of Interdisciplinary Laws

Last updated August 18, 1979, by Don Woods
HTLM version : Didier Müller, September 28, 1995
Thanks to David Coble for the text version

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
B - C - D - E - F - G - H - I - J - K - L - M - N - O - P - Q - R - S - T -
U - V - W - Y - Z
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

A

Abbott's Admonitions:
  1. If you have to ask, you're not entitled to know.
  2. If you don't like the answer, you shouldn't have asked the question.
Abrams's Advice:
     When eating an elephant, take one bite at a time.
Rule of Accuracy:
     When working toward the solution of a problem, it always helps if you
     know the answer.
     Corollary: Provided, of course, that you know there is a problem.
Acheson's Rule of the Bureaucracy:
     A memorandum is written not to inform the reader but to protect the
     writer.
Acton's Law:
     Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Ade's Law:
     Anybody can win -- unless there happens to be a second entry.
Airplane Law:
     When the plane you are on is late, the plane you want to transfer to is
     on time.
Alan's Law of Research
     The theory is supported as long as the funds are.
Albrecht's Law:
     Social innovations tend to the level of minimum tolerable well being.
Algren's Precepts:
     Never eat at a place called Mom's. Never play cards with a man named
     Doc. And never lie down with a woman who's got more troubles than you.
Allen's Law of Civilization:
     It is better for civilization to be going down the drain than to be
     coming up it.
Agnes Allen's Law:
     Almost anything is easier to get into than out of.
Allen's Axiom
     When all else fails, follow instructions.
Allen's Distinction
     The lion and the calf shall lie down together, but the calf won't get
     much sleep.
Fred Allen's Motto:
     I'd rather have a free bottle in front of me than a prefrontal
     lobotomy.
Alley's Axiom:
     Justice always prevails . . . three times out of seven.
Alligator Allegory:
     The objective of all dedicated product support employees should be to
     thoroughly analyze all situations, anticipate all problems prior to
     their occurrence, have answers for these problems, and move swiftly to
     solve these problems when called upon. However, when you are up to your
     ass in alligators, it is difficult to remind yourself that your initial
     objective was to drain the swamp.
Allison's Precept
     The best simple-minded test of expertise in a particular area is the
     ability to win money in a series of bets on future occurrences in that
     area.
Anderson's Law
     Any system or program, however complicated, if looked at in exactly the
     right way, will become even more complicated.
Andrews's Canoeing Postulate:
     No matter which direction you start it's always against the wind coming
     back.
Law of Annoyance:
     When working on a project, if you put away a tool that you're certain
     you're finished with, you will need it instantly.
Anthony's Law of Force:
     Don't force it, get a larger hammer.
Anthony's Law of the Workshop:
     Any tool, when dropped, will roll into the least accessible corner of
     the workshop.
     Corollary: On the way to the corner, any dropped tool will first always
     strike your toes.
Laws of Applied Confusion:
  1. The one piece that the plant forgot to ship is the one that supports
     75% of the balance of the shipment.
     Corollary: Not only did the plant forget to ship it, 50% of the time
     they haven't even made it.
  2. Truck deliveries that normally take one day will take five when you are
     waiting for the truck.
  3. After adding two weeks to the schedule for unexpected delays, add two
     more for the unexpected, unexpected delays.
  4. In any structure, pick out the one piece that should not be mismarked
     and expect the plant to cross you up.
     Corollaries:
       1. In any group of pieces with the same erection mark on it, one
          should not have that mark on it.
       2. It will not be discovered until you try to put it where the mark
          says it's supposed to go.
       3. Never argue with the fabricating plant about an error. The
          inspection prints are all checked off, even to the holes that
          aren't there.
Approval Seeker's Law:
     Those whose approval you seek the most give you the least.
The Aquinas Axiom:
     What the gods get away with, the cows don't.
Army Axiom:
     Any order that can be misunderstood has been misunderstood.
Army Law:
     If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; if you can't
     pick it up, paint it.
Ashley-Perry Statistical Axioms:
  1. Numbers are tools, not rules.
  2. Numbers are symbols for things; the number and the thing are not the
     same.
  3. Skill in manipulating numbers is a talent, not evidence of divine
     guidance.
  4. Like other occult techniques of divination, the statistical method has
     a private jargon deliberately contrived to obscure its methods from
     nonpractitioners.
  5. The product of an arithmetical computation is the answer to an
     equation; it is not the solution to a problem.
  6. Arithmetical proofs of theorems that do not have arithmetical bases
     prove nothing.
Astrology Law:
     It's always the wrong time of the month.
Fourteenth Corollary of Atwood's General Law of Dynamic Negatives:
     No books are lost by loaning except those you particularly wanted to
     keep.
Avery's Rule of Three:
     Trouble strikes in series of threes, but when working around the house
     the next job after a series of three is not the fourth job -- it's the
     start of a brand new series of three.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

B

Babcock's Law:
     If it can be borrowed and it can be broken, you will borrow it and you
     will break it.
Baer's Quartet:
     What's good politics is bad economics; what's bad politics is good
     economics; what's good economics is bad politics; what's bad economics
     is good politics.
Bagdikian's Law of Editor's Speeches:
     The splendor of an editor's speech and the splendor of his newspaper
     are inversely related to the distance between the city in which he
     makes his speech and the city in which he publishes his paper.
Baker's Byroad:
     When you are over the hill, you pick up speed.
Baker's Law:
     Misery no longer loves company. Nowadays it insists on it.
Baldy's Law:
     Some of it plus the rest of it is all of it.
Barber's Laws of Backpacking
  1. The integral of the gravitational potential taken around any loop trail
     you chose to hike always comes out positive.
  2. Any stone in your boot always migrates against the pressure gradient to
     exactly the point of most pressure.
  3. The weight of your pack increases in direct proportion to the amount of
     food you consume from it. If you run out of food, the pack weight goes
     on increasing anyway.
  4. The number of stones in your boot is directly proportional to the
     number of hours you have been on the trail.
  5. The difficulty of finding any given trail marker is directly
     proportional to the importance of the consequences of failing to find
     it.
  6. The size of each of the stones in your boot is directly proportional to
     the number of hours you have been on the trail.
  7. The remaining distance to your chosen campsite remains constant as
     twilight approaches.
  8. The net weight of your boots is proportional to the cube of the number
     of hours you have been on the trail.
  9. When you arrive at your chosen campsite, it is full.
 10. If you take your boots off, you'll never get them back on again.
 11. The local density of mosquitos is inversely proportional to your
     remaining repellent.
Barrett's Laws of Driving:
  1. You can get ANYWHERE in ten minutes if you go fast enough.
  2. Speed bumps are of negligible effect when the vehicle exceeds triple
     the desired restraining speed.
  3. The vehicle in front of you is traveling slower than you are.
  4. This lane ends in 500 feet.
Barr's Comment on Domestic Tranquility:
     On a beautiful day like this it's hard to believe anyone can be unhappy
     -- but we'll work on it.
Barth's Distinction
     There are two types of people: those who divide people into two types,
     and those who don't.
Bartz's Law of Hokey Horsepuckery:
     The more ridiculous a belief system, the higher the probability of its
     success.
Baruch's Rule for Determining Old Age:
     Old age is always fifteen years older than I am.
Barzun's Laws of Learning
  1. The simple but difficult arts of paying attention, copying accurately,
     following an argument, detecting an ambiguity or a false inference,
     testing guesses by summoning up contrary instances, organizing one's
     time and one's thought for study -- all these arts -- cannot be taught
     in the air but only through the difficulties of a defined subject. They
     cannot be taught in one course or one year, but must be acquired
     gradually in dozens of connections.
  2. The analogy to athletics must be pressed until all recognize that in
     the exercise of Intellect those who lack the muscles, coordination, and
     will power can claim no place at the training table, let alone on the
     playing field.
Forthoffer's Cynical Summary of Barzun's Laws
  1. That which has not yet been taught directly can never be taught
     directly.
  2. If at first you don't succeed, you will never succeed.
Baxter's First Law:
     Government intervention in the free market always leads to a lower
     national standard of living.
Baxter's Second Law:
     The adoption of fractional gold reserves in a currency system always
     leads to depreciation, devaluation, demonetization and, ultimately, to
     complete destruction of that currency.
Baxter's Third Law:
     In a free market good money always drives bad money out of circulation.
Beardsley's Warning to Lawyers:
     Beware of and eschew pompous prolixity.
Beauregard's Law:
     When you're up to your nose, keep your mouth shut.
Becker's Law:
     It is much harder to find a job than to keep one.
Beifeld's Principle:
     The probability of a young man meeting a desirable and receptive young
     female increases by pyramidal progression when he is already in the
     company of (1) a date, (2) his wife, and (3) a better looking and
     richer male friend.
Belle's Constant:
     The ratio of time involved in work to time available for work is
     usually about 0.6.
Benchley's Distinction:
     There are two types of people: those who divide people into two types,
     and those who don't.
Benchley's Law:
     Anyone can do any amount of work, provided it isn't the work he is
     supposed to be doing at that moment.
Berkeley's Laws:
  1. The world is more complicated than most of our theories make it out to
     be.
  2. Ignorance is no excuse.
  3. Never decide to buy something while listening to the salesman.
  4. Information which is true meets a great many different tests very well.
  5. Most problems have either many answers or no answer. Only a few
     problems have a single answer.
  6. An answer may be wrong, right, both, or neither. Most answers are
     partly right and partly wrong.
  7. A chain of reasoning is no stronger than its weakest link.
  8. A statement may be true independently of illogical reasoning.
  9. Most general statements are false, including this one.
 10. An exception TESTS a rule; it NEVER PROVES it.
 11. The moment you have worked out an answer, start checking it -- it
     probably isn't right.
 12. If there is an opportunity to make a mistake, sooner or later the
     mistake will be made.
 13. Being sure mistakes will occur is a good frame of mind for catching
     them.
 14. Check the answer you have worked out once more -- before you tell it to
     anybody.
 15. Estimating a figure may be enough to catch an error.
 16. Figures calculated in a rush are very hot; they should be allowed to
     cool off a little before being used; thus we will have a reasonable
     time to think about the figures and catch mistakes.
 17. A great many problems do not have accurate answers, but do have
     approximate answers, from which sensible decisions can be made.
Berra's Law:
     You can observe a lot just by watching.
Berson's Corollary of Inverse Distances:
     The farther away from the entrance that you have to park, the closer
     the space vacated by the car that pulls away as you walk up to the
     door.
Bicycle Law:
     All bicycles weigh 50 pounds:
     A 30-pound bicycle needs a 20-pound lock and chain.
     A 40-pound bicycle needs a 10-pound lock and chain.
     A 50-pound bicycle needs no lock or chain.
First Law of Bicycling:
     No matter which way you ride it's uphill and against the wind.
The Billings Phenomenon:
     The conclusions of most good operations research studies are obvious.
Billings's Law:
     Live within your income, even if you have to borrow to do so.
Blaauw's Law:
     Established technology tends to persist in spite of new technology.
Blanchard's Newspaper Obituary Law:
     If you want your name spelled wrong, die.
Bok's Law:
     If you think education is expensive -- try ignorance.
Boling's Postulate:
     If you're feeling good, don't worry. You'll get over it.
Bolton's Law of Ascending Budgets:
     Under current practices, both expenditures and revenues rise to meet
     each other, no matter which one may be in excess.
Bombeck's Rule of Medicine:
     Never go to a doctor whose office plants have died.
Bonafede's Revelation:
     The conventional wisdom is that power is an aphrodisiac. In truth, it's
     exhausting.
Boob's Law:
     You always find something the last place you look.
Booker's Law:
     An ounce of application is worth a ton of abstraction.
Boozer's Revision:
     A bird in the hand is dead.
Boren's Laws of the Bureaucracy:
  1. When in doubt, mumble.
  2. When in trouble, delegate.
  3. When in charge, ponder.
Borkowski's Law:
     You can't guard against the arbitrary.
Borstelmann's Rule:
     If everything seems to be coming your way, you're probably in the wrong
     lane.
Boston's Irreversible Law of Clutter:
     In any household, junk accumulates to fill the space available for its
     storage.
Boultbee's Criterion:
     If the converse of a statement is absurd, the original statement is an
     insult to the intelligence and should never have been said.
Boyle's Laws:
  1. The success of any venture will be helped by prayer, even in the wrong
     denomination.
  2. When things are going well, someone will inevitably experiment
     detrimentally.
  3. The deficiency will never show itself during the dry runs.
  4. Information travels more surely to those with a lesser need to know.
  5. An original idea can never emerge from committee in the original.
  6. When the product is destined to fail, the delivery system will perform
     perfectly.
  7. The crucial memorandum will be snared in the out-basket by the paper
     clip of the overlying correspondence and go to file.
  8. Success can be insured only by devising a defense against failure of
     the contingency plan.
  9. Performance is directly affected by the perversity of inanimate
     objects.
 10. If not controlled, work will flow to the competent man until he
     submerges.
 11. The lagging activity in a project will invariably be found in the area
     where the highest overtime rates lie waiting.
 12. Talent in staff work or sales will recurringly be interpreted as
     managerial ability.
 13. The "think positive" leader tends to listen to his subordinates'
     premonitions only during the postmortems.
 14. Clearly stated instructions will consistently produce multiple
     interpretations.
 15. On successive charts of the same organization the number of boxes will
     never decrease.
Branch's First Law of Crisis:
     The spirit of public service will rise, and the bureaucracy will
     multiply itself much faster, in time of grave national concern.
First Law of Bridge:
     It's always the partner's fault.
Brien's First Law:
     At some time in the life cycle of virtually every organization, its
     ability to succeed in spite of itself runs out.
Broder's Law:
     Anybody that wants the presidency so much that he'll spend two years
     organizing and campaigning for it is not to be trusted with the office.
Brontosaurus Principle:
     Organizations can grow faster than their brains can manage them in rel
