   [GeoCities][Rank My Site][Take A Tour][My Guestbook][Chat]
   [Paris]    [Pages Like Mine][Search][Send This Page][Forums][Email Me]
                              [Image] [Image]




     Murphy's Technology Laws

       1. You can never tell which way the train went by looking at
          the track.
       2. Logic is a systematic method of coming to the wrong
          conclusion with confidence.
       3. Whenever a system becomes completely defined, some damn fool
          discovers something which either abolishes the system or
          expands it beyond recognition.
       4. Technology is dominated by those who manage what they do not
          understand.
       5. If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote
          programs, then the first woodpecker that came along would
          destroy civilization.
       6. The opulence of the front office decor varies inversely with
          the fundamental solvency of the firm.
       7. The attention span of a computer is only as long as it
          electrical cord.
       8. An expert is one who knows more and more about less and less
          until he knows absolutely everything about nothing.
       9. Tell a man there are 300 billion stars in the universe and
          he'll believe you. Tell him a bench has wet paint on it and
          he'll have to touch to be sure.
      10. All great discoveries are made by mistake.
      11. Always draw your curves, then plot your reading.
      12. Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.
      13. All's well that ends.
      14. A meeting is an event at which the minutes are kept and the
          hours are lost.
      15. The first myth of management is that it exists.
      16. A failure will not appear till a unit has passed final
          inspection.
      17. New systems generate new problems.
      18. To err is human, but to really foul things up requires a
          computer.
      19. We don't know one millionth of one percent about anything.
      20. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable
          from magic.
      21. A computer makes as many mistakes in two seconds as 20 men
          working 20 years make.
      22. Nothing motivates a man more than to see his boss putting in
          an honest day's work.
      23. Some people manage by the book, even though they don't know
          who wrote the book or even what book.
      24. The primary function of the design engineer is to make
          things difficult for the fabricator and impossible for the
          serviceman.
      25. To spot the expert, pick the one who predicts the job will
          take the longest and cost the most.
      26. After all is said and done, a hell of a lot more is said
          than done.
      27. Any circuit design must contain at least one part which is
          obsolete, two parts which are unobtainable and three parts
          which are still under development.
      28. A complex system that works is invariably found to have
          evolved from a simple system that works.
      29. If mathematically you end up with the incorrect answer, try
          multiplying by the page number.
      30. Computers are unreliable, but humans are even more
          unreliable. Any system which depends on human reliability is
          unreliable.
      31. .Give all orders verbally. Never write anything down that
          might go into a "Pearl Harbor File."
      32. Under the most rigorously controlled conditions of pressure,
          temperature, volume, humidity, and other variables the
          organism will do as it damn well pleases.
      33. If you can't understand it, it is intuitively obvious.
      34. The more cordial the buyer's secretary, the greater the odds
          that the competition already has the order.
      35. In designing any type of construction, no overall dimension
          can be totalled correctly after 4:30 p.m. on Friday. The
          correct total will become self-evident at 8:15 a.m. on
          Monday.
      36. Fill what's empty. Empty what's full. And scratch where it
          itches.
      37. All things are possible except skiing through a revolving
          door.
      38. The only perfect science is hind-sight.
      39. Work smarder and not harder and be careful of yor speling.
      40. If it's not in the computer, it doesn't exist.
      41. If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.
      42. When all else fails, read the instructions.
      43. If there is a possibility of several things going wrong the
          one that will cause the most damage will be the one to go
          wrong.
      44. Everything that goes up must come down.
      45. Any instrument when dropped will roll into the least
          accessible corner.
      46. Any simple theory will be worded in the most complicated
          way.
      47. Build a system that even a fool can use and only a fool will
          want to use it.
      48. The degree of technical competence is inversely proportional
          to the level of management.

     The Laws of Computer Programming

       1. Any given program, when running, is obsolete.
       2. Any given program costs more and takes longer each time it
          is run.
       3. If a program is useful, it will have to be changed.
       4. If a program is useless, it will have to be documented.
       5. Any given program will expand to fill all the available
          memory.
       6. The value of a program is inversely proportional to the
          weight of its output.
       7. Program complexity grows until it exceeds the capability of
          the programmer who must maintain it.

             [ Do You Like This Site? Recommend-It to a Friend]
 [Murphy's Laws | Murphy's Love Laws | Murphy's Technology Laws | Murphy's
                                 War Laws]
 [Life by Murphy's Law | Murphy's News | Murphy's download | The True Story
                            | Non Murphy Pages]
 [Contact Us | Join Our Mailing List | Awards Received | Murphy's Laws Book
                                   Store]
                 [Search Engines | Murphy's Laws Site Map]
         ---------------------------------------------------------
        This page hosted by[GeoCities] Get your own Free Home Page
                                                    [Welcome to GeoCities!]
