Kaudilya's

Arthashastra

Ghanstated inte English by

R. Shamasastry
Kautilya's
Arthashastra

Translated into English by
R. Shamasastry
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Table of Contents

Book I, "Concerning Discipline" .....occuv eee seer seer eres seers 3
Book Il, "The Duties of Government Superintendents" ...........cccoveee. 60
Book Il, "Concerning Law" ......uce eevee reece seers ee senses seen se eens 213
Book IV, "The Removal of Thorns" ......o.oo ieee 285
Book V, "The Conduct of Courtiers” .......ouummmmmnecr ie ceesreeeeee cree 336
Book VI: The Source of Sovereign States .....cccvev verve eves seer ecceeees 362
Book VII, "The End of the Six-Fold Policy" ....ccooovevrviree cere 370
Book VIII: Concerning Vices and Calamities......cccvevreeeveieercceencceennnes 467
Book IX, "The Work of an Invader" .........oo cover eee cece eee 490
Book X, "Relating to War .......oe cece serene sees 521
Book XI, "The Conduct of Corporations” ......ccecvvevreie sree sever enceeenes 541
Book XII, "Concerning a Powerful Enemy" .......ccceevvee eves seceescceeenes 547
Book XIII, "Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress" .......cocvvvevvrcveennnes 563
Book XIV, "Secret Means"... ccc eae eee 584
Book XV, "The Plan of @ Treatise"... eee cere eee 607
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book I, "Concerning Discipline”

CHAPTER I. THE LIFE OF A KING

Om.
Salutation to Sukra and Brihaspati.

This Arthasdstra is made as a compendium of almost all the
Arthasdstras, which, in view of acquisition and maintenance of the
earth, have been composed by ancient teachers.

Of this work, the following are the contents by sections and
books:

BOOK I. Concerning Discipline.

The end of Sciences; association with the aged; restraint of
the organs of sense; the creation of ministers; the creation of
councillors and priests; ascertaining by temptations purity or
impurity in the character of ministers; the institution of spies.
Protection of parties for or against one's own cause in one's own
state; winning over the factions for or against an enemy's cause in
an enemy's state; the business of council meeting; the mission of
envoys; protection of princes; the conduct of a prince kept under
restraint; treatment of a prince kept under restraint; the duties of a
king; duty towards the harem; personal safety.

BOOK II. The Duties of Government Superintendents.

3
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Formation of villages; division of land; construction of forts;
buildings within the fort; the duty of the chamberlain; the business
of collection of revenue by the collector-general; the business of
keeping up accounts in the office of accountants; detection of what
is embezzled by government servants out of state-revenue;
examination of the conduct of Government servants; the procedure
of forming royal writs; the superintendent of the treasury;
examination of gems that are to be entered into the treasury;
conducting mining operations and manufacture; the superintendent
of gold; the duties of the state goldsmith in the high road; the
superintendent of store-house; the superintendent of commerce;
the superintendent of forest produce; the superintendent of the
armoury; the superintendent of weights and measures;
measurement of space and time; the superintendent of tolls; the
superintendent of weaving; the superintendent of agriculture; the
superintendent of liquor; the superintendent of slaughter-house; the
superintendent of prostitutes; the superintendent of ships; the
superintendent of cows; the superintendent of horses; the
superintendent of elephants; the superintendent of chariots; the
superintendent of infantry; the duty of the commander-in-chief ,
the superintendent of passports; the superintendent of pasture
lands; the duty of revenue collectors; spies in the guise of
householders, merchants, and ascetics; the duty of a city
superintendent.

BOOK III. Concerning Law.

Determination of forms of agreements; determination of legal
disputes; concerning marriage; division of inheritance; buildings;
non-performance of agreements; recovery of debts; concerning
deposits; rules regarding slaves and labourers; co-operative
undertakings; rescision of purchase and sale; resumption of gifts,

4
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and sale without ownership; ownership; robbery; defamation;
assault; gambling and betting, and miscellaneous.

BOOK IV. Removal of Thorns.

Protection of artisans; protection of merchants; remedies
against national calamities; suppression of the wicked living by
foul means; detection of youths of criminal tendency by ascetic
spies; seizure of criminals on suspicion or in the very act;
examination of sudden death; trial and torture to elicit confession;
protection of all kinds of government departments; fines in lieu of
mutilation of limbs; death with or without torture; sexual
intercourse with immature girls; atonement for violating justice.

BOOK V. Conduct of Courtiers.

Concerning the awards of punishments; replenishment of the
treasury; concerning subsistence to government servants; the
conduct of a courtier; time-serving; consolidation of the kingdom
and absolute sovereignty.

BOOK VI. The Source of Sovereign States.

The elements of sovereignty; concerning peace and exertion.

BOOK VII. The End of Sixfold Policy.

The sixfold policy; determination of deterioration, stagnation,
and progress; the nature of alliance; the character of equal, inferior
and superior kings; forms of agreement made by an inferior king;
neutrality after proclaiming war or after concluding a treaty of

5
Kautilya's Arthashastra

peace; marching after proclaiming war or after making peace; the
march of combined powers; considerations about marching against
an assailable enemy and a strong enemy; causes leading to the
dwindling, greed and disloyalty of the army; considerations about
the combination of powers; the march of combined powers;
agreement of peace with or without definite terms; and peace with
renegades; peace and war by adopting the double policy; the
attitude of an assailable enemy; friends that deserve help;
agreement for the acquisition of a friend or gold; agreement of
peace for the acquisition of land; agreement for undertaking a
work; considerations about an enemy in the rear; recruitment of
lost power; measures conducive to peace with a strong and
provoked enemy; the attitude of a conquered enemy; the attitude of
a conquered king; making peace and breaking it; the conduct of a
Madhyama king; of a neutral king and of a circle of states.

BOOK VIII Concerning Vices and Calamities.

The aggregate of the calamities of the elements of
sovereignty; considerations about the troubles of the king and his
kingdom; the aggregate of the troubles of men; the group of
molestations; the group of obstructions; and the group of financial
troubles; the group of troubles of the army; and the group of
troubles of a friend.

BOOK IX. The Work of an Invader.

The knowledge of power, place, time, strength and weakness;
the time of invasion; the time for recruiting the army; the form of
equipment; the work of arraying a rival force; considerations of
annoyance in the rear; remedies against internal and external
troubles; consideration about loss of men, wealth and profit.

6
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Internal and external dangers; persons associated with traitors and
enemies; doubts about wealth and harm; and success to be obtained
by the employment of alternative strategic means.

BOOK X. Relating to War.

Encampment; march of the camp; protection of the army in
times of distress and attack; forms of treacherous fights;
encouragement to one's own army; the fight between one's own
and enemy's armies; battle-fields; the work of infantry, cavalry,
chariots and elephants; distinctive array of troops in respect of
wings, flanks and front; distinction between strong and weak
troops; battles with infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants; the
array of the army like a staff, a snake, a circle or in detached order;
the array of the army against that of an enemy.

BOOK XI. The Conduct of Corporations.

Causes of dissension; secret punishment.

BOOK XII. Concerning a Powerful Enemy.

The duties of a messenger; battle of intrigue; slaying the
commander-in-chief, and inciting a circle of states; spies with
weapons, fire, and poison; destruction of supply of stores, and of
granaries; capture of the enemy by means of secret contrivances or
by means of the army; and complete victory.

BOOK XIII. Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress.

Sowing the seeds of dissension; enticement of kings by secret
contrivances; the work of spies in a siege; the operation of a siege;

7
Kautilya's Arthashastra

restoration of peace in a conquered country.
BOOK XIV. Secret Means.

Means to injure an enemy; wonderful and delusive
contrivances; remedies against the injuries of one's own army.

BOOK XV. The Plan of a Treatise.
Paragraphical divisions of this treatise.

Such are the contents of this Science. There are on the whole
15 books, 150 chapters, 180 sections and 6,000 slokas.

This Sdstra, bereft of undue enlargement and easy to grasp
and understand, has been composed by Kautilya in words the
meaning of which has been definitely settled.

[Thus ends Chapter 1, "Life of a King" in Book I, "Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER II. THE END OF SCIENCES.
Determination of the place of Anvikshaki.

ANVIKSHAKI, the triple Védas (Trayi), Vdrta (agriculture,
cattle-breeding and trade), and Danda-Niti (science of
government) are what are called the four sciences.

The school of Manu (Manava) hold that there are only three
sciences: the triple Vedas, Varta and the science of government,

8
Kautilya's Arthashastra

inasmuch as the science of Anvikshaki is nothing but a special
branch of the Vedas.

The school of Brihaspati say that there are only two sciences:
Varta and the science of government, inasmuch as the Triple
Vedas are merely an abridgment (Samvarana, pretext?) for a man
experienced in affairs temporal (Lokayatravidah).

The school of Usanas declare that there is only one science,
and that the science of government; for, they say, it is in that
science that all other sciences have their origin and end.

But Kautilya holds that four and only four are the sciences;
wherefore it is from these sciences that all that concerns
righteousness and wealth is learnt, therefore they are so called.

Anvikshaki comprises the Philosophy of Sankhya, Yoga, and
Lokayata (Atheism ?).

Righteous and unrighteous acts (Dharmadharmau) are learnt
from the triple Vedas; wealth and non-wealth from Varta; the
expedient and the inexpedient (Nayanayau), as well as potency and
impotency (Balabale) from the science of government.

When seen in the light of these sciences, the science of
Anvikshaki is most beneficial to the world, keeps the mind steady
and firm in weal and woe alike, and bestows excellence of
foresight, speech and action.

Light to all kinds of knowledge, easy means to accomplish all
kinds of acts and receptacle of all kinds of virtues, is the Science of
Anvikshaki ever held to be.

[Thus ends Chapter II, "Determination of the place of Anvikshaki"
among Sciences in Book I, "Concerning Discipline” of the

9
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER III. THE END OF SCIENCES.

Determination of the place of the Triple Vedas.

THE three Vedas, Sama, Rik and Yajus, constitute the triple
Vedas. These together with Atharvaveda and the Itihasaveda are
(known as) the Vedas.

Siksha (Phonetics), Kalpa (ceremonial injunctions),
Vyakarana (grammar), Nirukta (glossarial explanation of obscure
Vedic terms), Chandas (Prosody), and Astronomy form the Angas.

As the triple Vedas definitely determine the respective duties
of the four castes and of the four orders of religious life, they are
the most useful.

The duty of the Brahman is study, teaching, performance of
sacrifice, officiating in others’ sacrificial performance and the
giving and receiving of gifts.

That of a Kshatriya is study, performance of sacrifice, giving
gifts, military occupation, and protection of life.

That of a Vaisya is study, performance of sacrifice, giving
gifts, agriculture, cattle breeding, and trade.

That of a Sudra is the serving of twice-born (dvijati),
agriculture, cattle-breeding, and trade (varta), the profession of
artizans and court-bards (karukusilavakarma).

10
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The duty of a householder is earning livelihood by his own
profession, marriage among his equals of different ancestral Rishis,
intercourse with his wedded wife after her monthly ablution, gifts
to gods, ancestors, guests, and servants, and the eating of the
remainder.

That of a student (Brahmacharin) is learning the Vedas,
fire-worship, ablution, living by begging, and devotion to his
teacher even at the cost of his own life, or in the absence of his
teacher, to the teacher's son, or to an elder classmate.

That of a Vanaprastha (forest-recluse) is observance of
chastity, sleeping on the bare ground, keeping twisted locks,
wearing deer-skin, fire-worship, ablution, worship of gods,
ancestors, and guests, and living upon food stuffs procurable in
forests.

That of an ascetic retired from the world (Parivrajaka) is
complete control of the organs of sense, abstaining from all kinds
of work, disowning money, keeping from society, begging in many
places, dwelling in forests, and purity both internal and external.

Harmlessness, truthfulness, purity, freedom from spite,
abstinence from cruelty, and forgiveness are duties common to all.

The observance of one's own duty leads one to Svarga and
infinite bliss (Anantya). When it is violated, the world will come to
an end owing to confusion of castes and duties.

Hence the king shall never allow people to swerve from their
duties; for whoever upholds his own duty, ever adhering to the
customs of the Aryas, and following the rules of caste and divisions
of religious life, will surely. be happy both here and hereafter. For
the world, when maintained in accordance with injunctions of the
triple Vedas, will surely progress, but never perish.

11
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter III, "Determination of the place of the Triple
Vedas" among Sciences in Book I, "Concerning Discipline” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER IV. THE END OF SCIENCES.
Varta and Dandaniti.

AGRICULTURE, cattle-breeding and trade constitute Varta.
It is most useful in that it brings in grains, cattle, gold, forest
produce (kupya), and free labour (vishti). It is by means of the
treasury and the army obtained solely through Varta that the king
can hold under his control both his and his enemy's party.

That sceptre on which the well-being and progress of the
sciences of Anvikshaki, the triple Vedas, and Varta depend is
known as Danda (punishment). That which treats of Danda is the
law of punishment or science of government (dandaniti).

It is a means to make acquisitions, to keep them secure, to
improve them, and to distribute among the deserved the profits of.
improvement. It is on this science of government that the course of
the progress of the world depends.

"Hence," says my teacher, "whoever is desirous of the
progress of the world shall ever hold the sceptre raised
(udyatadanda). Never can there be a better instrument than the
sceptre to bring people under control.”

"No," says Kautilya; for whoever imposes severe punishment
becomes repulsive to the people; while he who awards mild
punishment becomes contemptible. But whoever imposes

12
Kautilya's Arthashastra

punishment as deserved becomes respectable. For punishment
(danda) when awarded with due consideration, makes the people
devoted to righteousness and to works productive of wealth and
enjoyment; while punishment, when ill-awarded under the
influence of greed and anger or owing to ignorance, excites fury
even among hermits and ascetics dwelling in forests, not to speak
of householders.

But when the law of punishment is kept in abeyance, it gives
rise to such disorder as is implied in the proverb of fishes
(matsyanyayamudbhavayati); for in the absence of a magistrate
(dandadharabhave), the strong will swallow the weak; but under
his protection, the weak resist the strong.

This people (loka) consisting of four castes and four orders of
religious life, when governed by the king with his sceptre, will
keep to their respective paths, ever devotedly adhering to their
respective duties and occupations.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "Determination of the Place of Varta and of
Dandaniti” among Sciences in Book I, "Concerning Discipline” of
the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. "The End of Sciences” is completed. ]

CHAPTER V. ASSOCIATION WITH THE AGED.

HENCE the (first) three sciences (out of the four) are
dependent for their well-being on the science of government.
Danda, punishment, which alone can procure safety and security of
life is, in its turn, dependent on discipline (vinaya).

Discipline is of two kinds: artificial and natural; for

13
Kautilya's Arthashastra

instruction (kriya) can render only a docile being conformable to
the rules of discipline, and not an undocile being (adravyam). The
study of sciences can tame only those who are possessed of such
mental faculties as obedience, hearing, grasping, retentive
memory, discrimination, inference, and deliberation, but not others
devoid of such faculties.

Sciences shall be studied and their precepts strictly observed
under the authority of specialist teachers.

Having undergone the ceremony of tonsure, the student shall
learn the alphabet (l/ipi) and arithmetic. After investiture with
sacred thread, he shall study the triple Vedas, the science of
Anvikshaki under teachers of acknowledged authority (sishza), the
science of Vatra under government superintendents, and the
science of Dandaniti under theoretical and practical politicians
(vaktriprayoktribhyah).

He (the prince) shall observe celibacy till he becomes sixteen
years old. Then he shall observe the ceremony of tonsure (godana)
and marry.

In view of maintaining efficient discipline, he shall ever and
invariably keep company with aged professors of sciences in
whom alone discipline has its firm root.

He shall spend the forenoon in receiving lessons in military
arts concerning elephants, horses, chariots, and weapons, and the
afternoon in hearing the Itihasa.

Purana, Itivritta (history), Akhyayika (tales), Udaharana

(illustrative stories), Dharmasastra, and Arthasastra are (known
by the name) Itihasa.

14
Kautilya's Arthashastra

During the rest of the day and night, he shall not only receive
new lessons and revise old lessons, but also hear over and again
what has not been clearly understood.

For from hearing (sutra) ensues knowledge; from knowledge
steady application (yoga) is possible; and from application
self-possession (atmavatta) is possible. This is what is meant by
efficiency of learning (vidhyasamarthyam).

The king who is well educated and disciplined in sciences,
devoted to good Government of his subjects, and bent on doing
good to all people will enjoy the earth unopposed.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "Association with the Aged” in Book I,
"Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER VI. RESTRAINT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE.
The Shaking off of the Aggregate of the Six Enemies.

RESTRAINT of the organs of sense, on which success in
study and discipline depends can be enforced by abandoning lust,
anger, greed, vanity (mdna), haughtiness (mada), and overjoy
(harsha).

Absence of discrepancy (avipratipatti) in the perception of
sound, touch, colour, flavour, and scent by means of the ear, the
skin, the eyes, the tongue, and the nose, is what is meant by the
restraint of the organs of sense. Strict observance of the precepts of
sciences also means the same; for the sole aim of all the sciences is
nothing but restraint of the organs of sense.

Whosoever is of reverse character, whoever has not his

15
Kautilya's Arthashastra

organs of sense under his control, will soon perish, though
possessed of the whole earth bounded by the four quarters.

For example: Bhoja, known also by the name, Ddndakya,
making a lascivious attempt on a Brdhman maiden, perished along
with his kingdom and relations;

So also Kardla, the Vaideha. Likewise Janamejaya under the
influence of anger against Brdhmans, as well as Tdlajangha
against the family of Bhrigus.

Aila in his attempt under the influence of greed to make
exactions from Brdhmans, as well as Ajabindu, the Sauvira (in a
similar attempt);

Rdvana unwilling under the influence of vanity to restore a
stranger's wife, as well as Duryodhana to part with a portion of his
kingdom; Dambhodbhava as well as Arjuna of Haihaya dynasty
being so haughty as to despise all people;

Vitdpi in his attempt under the influence of overjoy to attack
Agastya, as well as the corporation of the Vrishnis in their attempt
against Dvaipdyana.

Thus these and other several kings, falling a prey to the
aggregate of the six enemies and having failed to restrain their
organs of sense, perished together with their kingdom and
relations. Having driven out the aggregate of the six enemies, as
well as Ambarisha of Jdmadagnya famous for his restraint of the
organs of sense Ndbhdga long enjoyed the earth.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, "The Shaking off of the Aggregate of the
Six Enemies” in the section of the "Restraint Of the Organs of
Sense” in Book I, "Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya.]

16
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER VII. RESTRAINT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE.
The Life of a Saintly King.

HENCE by overthrowing the aggregate of the six enemies, he
shall restrain the organs of sense; acquire wisdom by keeping
company with the aged; see through his spies; establish safety and
security by being ever active; maintain his subjects in the
observance of their respective duties by exercising authority; keep
up his personal discipline by receiving lessons in the sciences; and
endear himself to the people by bringing them in contact with
wealth and doing good to them.

Thus with his organs of sense under his control, he shall keep
away from hurting the women and property of others; avoid not
only lustfulness, even in dream, but also falsehood, haughtiness,
and evil proclivities; and keep away from unrighteous and
uneconomical transactions.

Not violating righteousness and economy, he shall enjoy his
desires. He shall never be devoid of happiness. He may enjoy in an
equal degree the three pursuits of life, charity, wealth, and desire,
which are inter-dependent upon each other. Any one of these three,
when enjoyed to an excess, hurts not only the other two, but also
itself.

Kautilya holds that wealth and wealth alone is important,
inasmuch as charity and desire depend upon wealth for their
realisation.

Those teachers and ministers who keep him from falling a
prey to dangers, and who, by striking the hours of the day as
determined by measuring shadows (chhdydndlikdpratodena) warn

17
Kautilya's Arthashastra

him of his careless proceedings even in secret shall invariably be
respected.

Sovereignty (rdjatva) is possible only with assistance. A
single wheel can never move. Hence he shall employ ministers and
hear their opinion.

[Thus ends Chapter VII, “The Life of a Saintly King” in the section
of the “Restraint of the Organs of Sense,” in Book I, “Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya; “Restraint of the
Organs of Sense” is completed. ]

CHAPTER VIII. CREATION OF MINISTERS.

"THE King," says Bhdradvdja, "shall employ his classmates
as his ministers; for they can be trusted by him inasmuch as he has
personal knowledge of their honesty and capacity.”

“No,” says Visdldksha, "for, as they have been his playmates
as well, they would despise him. But he shall employ as ministers
those whose secrets, possessed of in common, are well known to
him. Possessed of habits and defects in common. with the king,
they would never hurt him lest he would betray their secrets.”

“Common is this fear,” says Pardsara, “for under the fear of
betrayal of his own secrets, the king may also follow them in their
good and bad acts.

"Under the control of as many persons as are made aware by
the king of his own secrets, might he place himself in all humility
by that disclosure. Hence he shall employ as ministers those who
have proved faithful to him under difficulties fatal to life and are of
tried devotion.”

18
Kautilya's Arthashastra

"No,” says Pisuna, “for this is devotion, but not intelligence
(buddhigunah). He shall appoint as ministers those who, when
employed as financial matters, show as much as, or more than, the
fixed revenue, and are thus of tried ability.”

"No," says Kaunapadanta, "for such persons are devoid of
other ministerial qualifications; he shall, therefore, employ as
ministers those whose fathers and grandfathers had been ministers
before; such persons, in virtue of their knowledge of past events
and of an established relationship with the king, will, though
offended, never desert him; for such faithfulness is seen even
among dumb animals; cows, for example, stand aside from strange
cows and ever keep company with accustomed herds."

"No," says Vdtavyddhi, "for such persons, having acquired
complete dominion over the king, begin to play themselves as the
king. Hence he shall employ as ministers such new persons as are
proficient in the science of polity. It is such new persons who will
regard the king as the real sceptre-bearer (dandadhara) and dare
not offend him."

"No," says the son of Bdhudanti (a woman); "for a man
possessed of only theoretical knowledge and having no experience
of practical politics is likely to commit serious blunders when
engaged in actual works. Hence he shall employ as ministers such
as are born of high family and possessed of wisdom, purity of
purpose, bravery and loyal feelings inasmuch as ministerial
appointments shall purely depend on qualifications."

"This," says Kautilya, "is satisfactory in all respects; for a
man's ability is inferred from his capacity shown in work. And in
accordance in difference in the working capacity,

Having divided the spheres of their powers and having

19
Kautilya's Arthashastra

definitely taken into consideration the place and time where and
when they have to work, such persons shall be employed not as
councillors (mantrinah) but as ministerial officers (amdryah).

[Thus ends Chapter VIII, “Creation of Ministers” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER IX. THE CREATION OF COUNCILLORS AND
PRIESTS.

NATIVE, born of high family, influential, well trained in arts,
possessed of foresight, wise, of strong memory, bold, eloquent,
skillful, intelligent, possessed of enthusiasm, dignity, and
endurance, pure in character, affable, firm in loyal devotion,
endowed with excellent conduct, strength, health and bravery, free
from procrastination and ficklemindedness, affectionate, and free
from such qualities as excite hatred and enmity--these are the
qualifications of a ministerial officer (amdtyasampat).

Such as are possessed of one-half or one-quarter of the above
qualifications come under middle and low ranks.

Of these qualifications, native birth and influential position
shall be ascertained from reliable persons; educational
qualifications (silpa) from professors of equal learning; theoretical
and practical knowledge, foresight, retentive memory, and
affability shall be tested from successful, application in works;
eloquence, skillfulness and flashing intelligence from power
shown in narrating stories (kathdyogeshu, i.e., in conversation);
endurance, enthusiasm, and bravery in troubles; purity of life,
friendly disposition, and loyal devotion by frequent association;

20
Kautilya's Arthashastra

conduct, strength, health, dignity, and freedom from indolence and
ficklemindedness shall be ascertained from their intimate friends;
and affectionate and philanthrophic nature by personal experience.

The works of a king may be visible, invisible (paroksha) and
inferential.

That which he sees is visible; and that which he is taught by
another is invisible; and inference of the nature of what is not
accomplished from what is accomplished is inferential..

As works do not happen to be simultaneous, are various in
form, and pertain to distant and different localities, the king shall,
in view of being abreast of time and place, depute his ministers to
carry them out. Such is the work of ministers.

Him whose family and character are highly spoken of, who is
well educated in the Vedds and the six Angas, is skillful in reading
portents providential or accidental, is well versed in the science of
government, and who is obedient and who can prevent calamities
providential or human by performing such expiatory rites as are
prescribed in the Atharvaveda, the king shall employ as high priest.
As a student his teacher, a son his father, and a servant his master,
the king shall follow him.

That Kshatriya breed which is brought up by Brdhmans, is
charmed with the counsels of good councillors, and which
faithfully follows the precepts of the sdstras becomes invincible
and attains success though unaided with weapons.

[Thus ends Chapter IX, “Creation of Councillors and Priests” in
Book I “Conceming Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

21
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER X. ASCERTAINING BY TEMPTATIONS
PURITY OR IMPURITY IN THE CHARACTER OF
MINISTERS.

ASSISTED by his prime minister (rmantri) and his high priest,
the king shall, by offering temptations, examine the character of
ministers (amdtya) appointed in government departments of
ordinary nature.

The king shall dismiss a priest who, when ordered, refuses to
teach the Vedds to an outcaste person or to officiate in a sacrificial
performance (apparently) undertaken by an outcaste person

(aydjya).

Then the dismissed priest shall, through the medium of spies
under the guise of class-mates (satri), instigate each minister one
after another, saying on oath "this king is unrighteous; well let us
set up in his place another king who is righteous, or who is born of
the same family as of this king, or who is kept imprisoned, or a
neighbouring king of his family and of self-sufficiency
(ekapragraha), or a wild chief (atavika), or an upstart
(aupapddika); this attempt is to the liking of all of us; what dost
thou think ?"

If any one or all of the ministers refuse to acquiesce in such a
measure, he or they shall be considered pure. This is what is called
religious allurement.

A commander of the army, dismissed from service for
receiving condemnable things (asatpragraha) may, through the
agency of spies under the guise of class-mates (satri), incite each
minister to murder the king in view of acquiring immense wealth,
each minister being asked "this attempt is to the liking of all of us;
what dost thou think?"

22
Kautilya's Arthashastra

If they refuse to agree, they are to be considered pure. This is
what is termed monetary allurement.

A woman-spy under the guise of an ascetic and highly
esteemed in the harem of the king may allure each prime minister
(mahdmdtra) one after another, saying "the queen is enamoured of
thee and has made arrangements for thy entrance into her chamber;
besides this, there is also the certainty of large acquisitions of
wealth.”

If they discard the proposal, they are pure. This is what is
styled love-allurement.

With the intention of sailing on a commercial vessel
(prahavananimittam), a minister may induce all other ministers to
follow him. Apprehensive of danger, the king may arrest them all.
A spy under the guise of a fraudulent disciple, pretending to have
suffered imprisonment may incite each of the ministers thus
deprived of wealth and rank, saying, "the king has betaken himself
to an unwise course; well, having murdered him, let us put another
in his stead. We all like this; what dost thou think?"

If they refuse to agree, they are pure. This is what is termed
allurement under fear.

Of these tried ministers, those whose character has been
tested under religious allurements shall be employed in civil and
criminal courts (dharmasthanfyakantaka sodhaneshu); those
whose purity has been tested under monetary allurements shall be
employed in the work of a revenue collector and chamberlain;
those who have been tried under love-allurements shall be
appointed to superintend the pleasure-grounds (vihdra) both
external and internal; those who have been tested by allurements
under fear shall be appointed to immediate service; and those

23
Kautilya's Arthashastra

whose character has been tested under all kinds of allurements
shall be employed as prime ministers (snantrinah), while those who
are proved impure under one or all of these allurements shall be
appointed in mines, timber and elephant forests, and
manufactories.

Teachers have decided that in accordance with ascertained
purity, the king shall employ in corresponding works those
ministers whose character has been tested under the three pursuits
of life, religion, wealth and love, and under fear.

Never, in the view of Kautilya, shall the king make himself or
his queen an object (laksham, butt) of testing the character of his
councillors, nor shall he vitiate the pure like water with poison.

Sometimes the prescribed medicine may fail to reach the
person of moral disease; the mind of the valiant, though naturally
kept steadfast, may not, when once vitiated and repelled under the
four kinds of allurements, return to and recover its original form.

Hence having set up an external object as the butt for all the
four kinds of allurements, the king shall, through the agency of
spies (satri), find out the pure or impure character of his ministers

(amdtya).
[Thus ends Chapter X, “Ascertaining by Temptations Purity or

Impurity in the Character of Ministers,” in Book I, “Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XI. THE INSTITUTION OF SPIES.

ASSISTED by the council of his ministers tried under
24
Kautilya's Arthashastra

espionage, the king shall proceed to create spies: --Spies under the
guise of a fraudulent disciple (kdpatikachhdtra), a recluse
(uddsthita), a householder (grihapaitika), a merchant (vaidehaka),
an ascetic practising austerities (tdpasa), a class-mate or a
colleague (satri), a fire-brand (tikshna), a poisoner (rasada), and a
mendicant woman (bhikshuki).

A skillful person capable of guessing the mind of others is a
fraudulent disciple. Having encouraged such a spy with honour and
money rewards, the minister shall tell him, "sworn to the king and
myself, thou shalt inform us of whatever wickedness thou findest
in others.”

One who is initiated in asceticism and is possessed of
foresight and pure character is a recluse. This spy, provided with
much money and many disciples, shall carry on agriculture,
cattle-rearing, and trade (vdrtakarma) on the lands allotted to him
for the purpose. Out of the produce and profits thus acquired, he
shall provide all ascetics with subsistence, clothing and lodging,
and send on espionage such among those under his protection as
are desirous to earn a livelihood (vrittikdma), ordering each of
them to detect a particular kind of crime committed in connection
with the king's wealth and to report of it when they come to receive
their subsistence and wages. All the ascetics (under the recluse)
shall severally send their followers on similar errands.

A cultivator, fallen from his profession, but possessed of
foresight and pure character is termed a householder spy. This spy
shall carry on the cultivation of lands allotted to him for the
purpose, and maintain cultivators, etc.--as before.

A trader, fallen from his profession, but possessed of
foresight and pure character, is a merchant spy. This spy shall carry
on the manufacture of merchandise on lands allotted to him for the

25
Kautilya's Arthashastra

purpose, etc.,--as before.

A man with shaved head (munda) or braided hair (jatila) and
desirous to earn livelihood is a spy under the guise of an ascetic
practising austerities. Such a spy surrounded by a host of disciples
with shaved head or braided hair may take his abode in the suburbs
of a city, and pretend as a person barely living on a handful of
vegetables or meadow grass (yavasamushti) taken once in the
interval of a month or two, but he may take in secret his favourite
food-stuffs (gidhamishtamdhdram).

Merchant spies pretending to be his disciples may worship
him as one possessed of preternatural powers. His other disciples
may widely proclaim that "this ascetic is an accomplished expert of
preternatural powers."

Regarding those persons who, desirous of knowing their
future, throng to him, he may, through palmistry, foretell such
future events as he can ascertain by the nods and signs of his
disciples (angavidyayd sishyasanjndbhischa) concerning the
works of highborn people of the country,--viz., small profits,
destruction by fire, fear from robbers, the execution of the
seditious, rewards for the good, forecast of foreign affairs (videsa
pravrittivijndnam), saying, “this will happen to-day, that
to-morrow, and that this king will do.” Such assertions of the
ascetic his disciples shall corroborate (by adducing facts and
figures).

He shall also foretell not only the rewards which persons
possessed of foresight, eloquence, and bravery are likely to receive
at the hands of the king, but also probable changes in the
appointments of ministers.

The king's minister shall direct his affairs in conformity to the

26
Kautilya's Arthashastra

forecast made by the ascetic. He shall appease with offer of wealth
and honour those who have had some well known cause to be
disaffected, and impose punishments in secret on those who are for
no reason disaffected or who are plotting against the king.

Honoured by the king with awards of money and titles, these
five institutes of espionage (samsthdh) shall ascertain the purity of
character of the king's servants.

[Thus ends Chapter XI, "The Institution of Spies” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XII. INSTITUTION OF SPIES.
Creation of Wandering Spies.

THOSE orphans (asambandhinah) who are to be necessarily
fed by the state and are put to study science, palmistry (angavidya),
sorcery (mdydgata), the duties of the various orders of religious
life, legerdemain (jambhakavidya), and the reading of omens and
augury (antara-chakra), are classmate spies or spies learning by
social intercourse (samsargavidyasatrinah).

Such brave desperados of the country who, reckless of their
own life, confront elephants or tigers in fight mainly for the
purpose of earning money are termed firebrands or fiery spies
(tikshna).

Those who have no trace of filial affection left in them and
who are very cruel and indolent are poisoners (rasada).

A poor widow of Brdhman caste, very clever, and desirous to

27
Kautilya's Arthashastra

earn her livelihood is a woman ascetic (parivrdjikd). Honoured in
the king's harem, such a woman shall frequent the residences of the
king's prime ministers (meahdmdtrakuldni).

The same rule shall apply to women with shaved head
(munda), as well as to those of siidra caste. All these are wandering
spies (sanchdrdh).

Of these spies, those who are of good family, loyal, reliable,
well-trained in the art of putting on disguises appropriate to
countries and trades, and possessed of knowledge of many
languages and arts shall be sent by the king to espy in his own
country the movements of his ministers, priests, commanders of
the army, the heir-apparent, the doorkeepers, the officer in charge
of the harem, the magistrate (prasdstri), the collector-general
(samdhartri), the chamberlain (sannidhdtri), the commissioner
(pradeshtri), the city constable (ndyaka), the officer in charge of
the city (paura), the superintendent of transactions (vydvahdrika),
the superintendent of manufactories (karmdntika), the assembly of
councillors (mantriparishad), heads of departments (adhyakshdh),
the commissary-general (dandapdla), and officers in charge of
fortifications, boundaries, and wild tracts.

Fiery spies, such as are employed to hold the royal umbrella,
vase, fan, and shoes, or to attend at the throne, chariot, and
conveyance shall espy the public character (bdhyam chdram) of
these (officers).

Classmate spies shall convey this information (i.e., that
gathered by the fiery spies) to the institutes of espionage
(samsthdsvarpayeyuh).

Poisoners such as a sauce-maker (sida), a cook (ardlika),
procurer of water for bathing (sndpaka) shampooer, the spreader of

28
Kautilya's Arthashastra

bed (dstaraka), a barber (kalpaka), toilet-maker (prasddaka), a
water-servant; servants such as have taken the appearance of a
hump-backed person, a dwarf, a pigmy (kirdta), the dumb, the
deaf, the idiot, the blind; artisans such as actors, dancers, singers,
players on musical instruments, buffoons, and a bard; as well as
women shall espy the private character of these officers.

A mendicant woman shall convey this information to the
institute of espionage.

The immediate officers of the institutes of espionage
(samsthdndmantevdsinah) shall by making use of signs or writing
(samjndlipibhih) set their own spies in motion (to ascertain the
validity of the information).

Neither the institutes of espionage nor they (the wandering
spies) shall know each other.

If a mendicant woman is stopped at the entrance, the line of
door-keepers., spies under the guise of father and mother
(mdtdpitri vyanjandh), women artisans, court-bards, or prostitutes
shall, under the pretext of taking in musical instruments, or through
cipher-writing (gudhalekhya), or by means of signs, convey the
information to its destined place (chdram nirhareyuh.)

(Spies of the institutes of espionage) may suddenly go out
under the pretext of long standing disease, or lunacy, or by setting
fire (to something) or by administering poison (to some one).

When the information thus received from these three different
sources is exactly of the same version, it shall be held reliable. If
they (the three sources) frequently differ, the spies concerned shall
either be punished in secret or dismissed.

Those spies who are referred to in Book IV, "Removal of

29
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Thorns,” shall receive their salaries from those kings (para, i.e.,
foreign) with whom they live as servants; but when they aid both
the states in the work of catching hold of robbers, they shall
become recipients of salaries from both the states
(ubhayavetandh).

Those whose sons and wives are kept (as hostages) shall be
made recipients of salaries from two states and considered as under
the mission of enemies. Purity of character of such persons shall be
ascertained through persons of similar profession.

Thus with regard to kings who are inimical, friendly,
intermediate, of low rank, or neutral, and with regard to their
eighteen government departments (ashtdldasa-tirtha), spies shall
be set in motion.

The hump-backed, the dwarf, the eunuch, women of
accomplishments, the dumb, and various grades of Mlechcha caste
shall be spies inside their houses.

Merchant spies inside forts; saints and ascetics in the suburbs
of forts; the cultivator and the recluse in country parts; herdsmen in
the boundaries of the country; in forests, forest-dwellers,
sramands, and chiefs of wild tribes, shall be stationed to ascertain
the movements of enemies. All these spies shall be very quick in
the dispatch of their work.

Spies set up by foreign kings shall also be found out by local
spies; spies by spies of like profession. It is the institutes of
espionage, secret or avowed, that set spies in motion.

Those chiefs whose inimical design has been found out by
spies supporting the king's cause shall, in view of affording
opportunity to detect the spies of foreign kings, be made to live on

30
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the boundaries of the state.

[Thus ends Chapter XII, “Creation of Wandering Spies” in the
section of “The Institution of Spies,” in Book I. “Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XIII. PROTECTION OF PARTIES FOR OR
AGAINST ONE'S OWN CAUSE IN ONE'S OWN STATE.

HAVING set up spies over his prime ministers (mahdmdtra),
the king shall proceed to espy both citizens and country people.

Classmate spies (satri) formed as opposing factions shall
carry on disputations in places of pilgrimage (tirtha), in
assemblies, houses, corporations (piiga), and amid congregations
of people. One spy may say:--

"This king is said to be endowed with all desirable qualities;
he seems to be a stranger to such tendencies as would lead him to
oppress citizens and country people by levying heavy fines and
taxes."

Against those who seem to commend this opinion, another
spy may interrupt the speaker and say:--

"People suffering from anarchy as illustrated by the
proverbial tendency of a large fish swallowing a small one
(mdtsyanydydbhibhitah prajdh), first elected Manu, the
Vaivasvata, to be their king; and allotted one-sixth of the grains
grown and one-tenth of merchandise as sovereign dues. Fed by this
payment, kings took upon themselves the responsibility of
maintaining the safety and security of their subjects

31
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(yvogakshemavahdh), and of being answerable for the sins of their
subjects when the principle of levying just punishments and taxes
has been violated. Hence hermits, too, provide the king with
one-sixth of the grains gleaned by them, thinking that ‘it is a tax
payable to him who protects us.” It is the king in whom the duties
of both Indra (the rewarder) and Yama (the punisher) are blended,
and he is a visible dispenser of punishments and rewards (heda-
prasdda); whoever disregards kings will be visited with divine
punishments, too. Hence kings shall never be despised.”

Thus treacherous opponents of sovereignty shall be silenced.

Spies shall also know the rumours prevalent in the state. Spies
with shaved heads or braided hair shall ascertain whether there
prevails content or discontent among those who live upon the
grains, cattle, and gold of the king, among those who supply the
same (to the king) in weal or woe, those who keep under restraint a
disaffected relative of the king or a rebellious district, as well as
those who drive away an invading enemy or a wild tribe. The
greater the contentment of such persons, the more shall be the
honour shown to them; while those who are disaffected shall be
ingratiated by rewards or conciliation; or dissension may be sown
among them so that they may alienate themselves from each other,
from a neighbouring enemy, from a wild tribe, or from a banished
or imprisoned prince. Failing this measure, they may be so
employed in collecting fines and taxes as to incur the displeasure of
the people. Those who are inebriated with feelings of enmity may
be put down by punishment in secret or by making them incur the
displeasure of the whole country. Or having taken the sons and
wives of such treacherous persons under State protection, they may
be made to live in mines, lest they may afford shelter to enemies.

Those that are angry, those that are greedy, those that are
alarmed, as well as those that despise the king are the instruments

32
Kautilya's Arthashastra

of enemies. Spies under the guise of astrologers and tellers of
omens and augury shall ascertain the relationship of such persons
with each other and with foreign kings.

Honours and rewards shall be conferred upon those that are
contented, while those that are disaffected shall be brought round
by conciliation, by gifts, or by sowing dissension, or by
punishment.

Thus in his own state a wise king shall guard factions among
his people, friendly or hostile, powerful or powerless against the
intrigue of foreign kings.

[Thus ends Chapter XIII, “Protection of Parties for or against One's
Own Cause in One's Own State,” in Book I, “Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XIV. WINNING OVER FACTIONS FOR OR
AGAINST AN ENEMY'S CAUSE IN AN ENEMY'S STATE.

PROTECTION of parties for or against one's own cause in
one's own state has been dealt with. Similar measures in
connection with parties in a foreign state are to be treated of.

Those who are deluded with false promise of large rewards;
those of whom one party, though equally skillful as another party
in artistic work or in turning out productive or beneficial works, is
slighted by bestowing larger rewards on its rival party; those who
are harassed by courtiers (Vallabhd-varuddhdh); those who are
invited to be slighted; those who are harassed by banishment; those
who in spite of their large outlay of money have failed in their

33
Kautilya's Arthashastra

undertakings; those who are prevented from the exercise of their
rights or from taking possession of their inheritance; those who
have fallen from their rank and honours in government service;
those who are shoved to the corner by their own kinsmen; those
whose women are violently assaulted; those who are thrown in jail;
those who are punished in secret; those who are warned of their
misdeeds; those whose property has been wholly confiscated;
those who have long suffered from imprisonment; those whose
relatives are banished---all these come under the group of
provoked persons.

He who has fallen a victim to misfortune by his own
misdeeds; he who is offended (by the king); he whose sinful deeds
are brought to light; he who is alarmed at the award of punishment
on a man of like guilt; he whose lands have been confiscated; he
whose rebellious spirit is put down by coercive measures; he who,
as a superintendent of all government departments, has suddenly
amassed a large amount of wealth; he who, as a relative of such a
rich man aspires to inherit his wealth; he who is disliked by the
king; and he who hates the king,--all these come under the group of
persons alarmed.

He who is impoverished; he who has lost much wealth; he
who is niggardly; he who is addicted to evil propensities; and he
who is engaged in dangerous transactions,---all these constitute the
group of ambitious persons.

He who is self-sufficient; he who is fond of honours; he who
is intolerant of his rival's honour; he who is esteemed low; he who
is of a fiery spirit; he who is foolhardy as well as he who is not
content with what he has been enjoying,--all these come under the
group of haughty persons.

Of these, he who clings to a particular faction shall be so

34
Kautilya's Arthashastra

deluded by spies with shaved head or braided hair as to believe that
he is intriguing with that party. Partisans under provocation, for
example, may be won over by telling that ‘just as an elephant in rut
and mounted over by a driver under intoxication tramples under its
foot whatever it comes across, so this king, dispossessed of the eye
of science, blindly attempts to oppress both citizens and country
people; it is possible to restrain him by setting up a rival elephant
against him; so have forbearance enough (to wait).’

Likewise alarmed persons may be won over by telling that
‘just as a hidden snake bites and emits poison over whatever alarms
it, so this king apprehensive of danger from thee will ere long emit
the poison of his resentment on thee; so thou mayest better go
elsewhere.’

Similarly ambitious persons may be won over by telling that
‘just as a cow reared by dog-keepers gives milk to dogs, but not to
Brdhmans, so this king gives milk (rewards) to those who are
devoid of valour, foresight, eloquence and bravery, but not to those
who are possessed of noble character; so the other king who is
possessed of power to discriminate men from men may be
courted.’

In like manner haughty persons may be won over by telling
that ‘just as a reservoir of water belonging to Chdnddlas is
serviceable only to Chdnddlas, but not to others, so this king of
low-birth confers his patronage only on low-born people, but not
on Aryas like thee; so the other king who is possessed of power to
distinguish between men and men may be courted.’

All these disaffected persons, when acquiescing to the above
proposals, may be made under a solumn compact (panakarmand)
to form a combination together with the spies to achieve their end.

Likewise friends of a foreign king may also be won over by

35
Kautilya's Arthashastra

means of persuation and rewards, while implacable enemies may
be brought round by sowing dissensions, by threats, and by
pointing out the defects of their master.

[Thus ends Chapter XIV, "Winning over Factions for or against an
Enemy's Cause in an Enemy’s State," in Book I, "Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XV. THE BUSINESS OF COUNCIL MEETING.

HAVING gained a firm hold on the affection of both local
and foreign parties both in his own and enemy's state, the king shall
proceed to think of administrative measures.

All kinds of administrative measures are preceded by
deliberations in a well-formed council. The subject matter of a
council shall be entirely secret and deliberations in it shall be so
carried that even birds cannot see them; for it is said that the
secrecy of counsels was divulged by parrots, minas, dogs and other
low creatures of mean birth. Hence without providing himself with
sufficient safeguard against disclosure, he shall never enter into
deliberations in a council.

Whoever discloses counsels shall be torn to pieces. The
disclosure of counsels may be detected by observing changes in the
attitude and countenance of envoys, ministers, and masters.
Change in conduct is change in attitude (ingitamanyathdvrittih);
and observation of physical appearance is countenance
(dkritigrahanamdkdrah).

Maintenance of the secrecy of a council-matter, and keeping

36
Kautilya's Arthashastra

guard over officers that have taken part in the deliberation over it
(shall be strictly observed) till the time of starting the work so
considered approaches.

Carelessness, intoxication, talking in sleep, love and other
evil habits of councillors are the causes of the betrayal of counsels.

Whoever is of hidden nature or is disregarded will disclose
counsels. Hence steps shall be taken to safeguard counsels against
such dangers. Disclosure of counsels is advantageous to persons
other than the king and his officers.

"Hence," says Bhdradvdja, "the king shall singly deliberate
over secret matters; for ministers have their own ministers, and
these latter some of their own; this kind of successive line of
ministers tends to the disclosure of counsels.

"Hence no outside person shall know anything of the work
which the king has in view. Only those who are employed to carry
it out shall know it either when it is begun or when accomplished.”

“No deliberation,” says Visdldksha, “made by a single person
will be successful; the nature of the work which a sovereign has to
do is to be inferred from the consideration of both the visible and
invisible causes. The perception of what is not or cannot be seen,
the conclusive decision of whatever is seen, the clearance of doubts
as to whatever is susceptible of two opinions, and the inference of
the whole when only a part is seen--all this is possible of decision
only by ministers. Hence he shall sit at deliberation with persons of
wide intellect.

He shall despise none, but hear the opinions of all. A wise
man shall make use of even a child's sensible utterance.

"This is," says Pardsara "ascertaining the opinions of others,

37
Kautilya's Arthashastra

but not keeping counsels. He shall ask his ministers for their
opinion, on a work similar to the one he has in view, telling them
that "this is the work; it happened thus; what is to be done if it will
turn out thus"; and he shall do as they decide. If it is done thus, both
the ascertainment of opinions and maintenance of secrecy can be
attained.”

“Not s0,” says Pisuna, “for ministers, when called for their
opinions regarding a distant undertaking, or an accomplished or an
unaccomplished work, either approach the subject with
indifference or give their opinions half-heartedly. This is a serious
defect. Hence he shall consult such persons as are believed to be
capable of giving decisive opinion regarding those works about
which he seeks for advice. If he consults thus, he can secure good
advice as well as secrecy of counsel.”

"Not so," says Kautilya, "for this (kind of seeking for advice)
is infinite and endless. He shall consult three or four ministers.
Consultation with a single (minister) may not lead to any definite
conclusion in cases of complicated issues. A single minister
proceeds willfully and without restraint. In deliberating with two
ministers, the king may be overpowered by their combined action,
or imperiled by their mutual dissension. But with three or four
ministers he will not come to any serious grief, but will arrive at
satisfactory results. With ministers more than four in number, he
will have to come to a decision after a good deal of trouble; nor will
secrecy of counsel be maintained without much trouble. In
accordance with the requirements of place, time, and nature of the
work in view, he may, as he deems it proper, deliberate with one or
two ministers or by himself.

Means to carry out works, command of plenty of men and
wealth, allotment of time and place, remedies against dangers, and
final success are the five constituents of every council-deliberation.

38
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The king may ask his ministers for their opinion either
individually or collectively, and ascertain their ability by judging
over the reasons they assign for their opinions.

He shall lose no time when the opportunity waited for
arrives; nor shall he sit long at consultation with those whose
parties he intends to hurt.

The school of Manu say that the assembly of ministers
(mantriparishad) shall be made to consist of twelve members.

The school of Brihaspathi say that it shall consist of sixteen
members.

The school of Usanas say that it shall consist of twenty
members.

But Kautilya holds that it shall consist of as many members as
the needs of his dominion require (yathdsdmarthyam).

Those ministers shall have to consider all that concerns the
parties of both the king and his enemy. They shall also set
themselves to start the work that is not yet begun, to complete what
has been begun, to improve what has been accomplished, and to
enforce strict obedience to orders (niyogasampadam).

He shall supervise works in company with his officers that are
near  (dsannaih); and consult by sending writs
(patrasampreshanena) those that are (not) near (dsanna).

One thousand sages form Indra's assembly of ministers
(mantriparishad). They are his eyes. Hence he is called
thousand-eyed though he possesses only two eyes.

In works of emergency, he shall call both his ministers and

39
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the assembly of ministers (mantrino mantriparishadam cha), and
tell them of the same. He shall do whatever the majority
(bhityishthdh) of the members suggest or whatever course of action
leading to success (kdryasiddhikaram va) they point out. And
while doing any work,

None of his enemies (pare) shall know his secret, but he shall
know the weak points of his enemy. Like a tortoise he shall draw in
his limbs that are stretched out.

Just as balls of meal offered to ancestors by a person not
learned in the Vedas are unfit to be eaten by wise men, so whoever
is not well versed in sciences shall be unfit to hear of council
deliberations.

[Thus ends Chapter XV, "The Business of Council-meeting” in
Book I, “Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XVI. THE MISSION OF ENVOYS.
WHOEVER has succeeded as a councillor is an envoy.

Whoever possesses ministerial qualifications is a
chargé-d'affaires (nisrishtdrthah).

Whoever possesses the same qualifications less by
one-quarter is an agent entrusted with a definite mission
(parimitdrthah).

Whoever possesses the same qualifications less by one-half is
a conveyer of royal writs (sdsanaharah).

Having made excellent arrangements for carriage,

40
Kautilya's Arthashastra

conveyance, servants and subsistence, he (an envoy) shall start on
his mission, thinking that "the enemy shall be told thus: the enemy
(para) will say, thus; this shall be the reply to him; and thus he shall
be imposed upon.”

The envoy shall make friendship with the enemy's officers
such as those in charge of wild tracts, of boundaries, of cities, and
of country parts. He shall also contrast the military stations, sinews
of war, and strong-holds of the enemy with those of his own
master. He shall ascertain the size and area of forts and of the state,
as well as strongholds of precious things and assailable and
unassailable points.

Having obtained permission, he shall enter into the capital of
the enemy and state the object of the mission as exactly as
entrusted to him even at the cost of his own life.

Brightness in the tone, face, and eyes of the enemy; respectful
reception of the mission; enquiry about the health of friends; taking
part in the narration of virtues; giving a seat close to the throne;
respectful treatment of the envoy; remembrance of friends; closing
the mission with satisfaction;--all these shall be noted as indicating
the good graces of the enemy and the reverse his displeasure.

A displeased enemy maybe told:--

"Messengers are the mouth-pieces of kings, not only of
thyself, but of all; hence messengers who, in the face of weapons
raised against them, have to express their mission as exactly as they
are entrusted with do not, though outcasts, deserve death; where is
then reason to put messengers of Brdhman caste to death? This is
another's speech. This (i.e., delivery of that speech verbatim) is the
duty of messengers."

41
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Not puffed up with the respects shown to him, he shall stay
there till he is allowed to depart. He shall not care for the
mightiness of the enemy; shall strictly avoid women and liquor;
shall take bed single; for it is well-known that the intentions of
envoys are ascertained while they are asleep or under the influence
of liquor.

He shall, through the agency of ascetic and merchant spies or
through their disciples or through spies under the disguise of
physicians, and heretics, or through recipients of salaries from two
states (ubhayavétana), ascertain the nature of the intrigue prevalent
among parties favourably disposed to his own master, as well as
the conspiracy of hostile factions, and understand the loyalty or
disloyalty of the people to the enemy besides any assailable points.

If there is no possibility of carrying on any such conversation
(conversation with the people regarding their loyalty), he may try
to gather such information by observing the talk of beggars,
intoxicated and insane persons or of persons babbling in sleep, or
by observing the signs made in places of pilgrimage and temples or
by deciphering paintings and secret writings
(chitra-gidha-lékhya-samjiid-bhih).

Whatever information he thus gathers he shall try to test by
intrigues.

He shall not check the estimate which the enemy makes of
the elements of sovereignty of his own master; but he shall only say
in reply, ‘All is known to thee.” Nor shall he disclose the means
employed (by his master) to achieve an end in view.

If he has not succeeded in his mission, but is still detained, he
shall proceed to infer thus:--

42
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whether seeing the imminent danger into which my master is
likely to fall and desirous of averting his own danger; whether in
view of inciting against my master an enemy threatening in the rear
or a king whose dominion in the rear is separated by other
intervening states; whether in view of causing internal rebellion in
my master’s state, or of inciting a wild chief (dravika) against my
master; whether in view of destroying my master by employing a
friend or a king whose dominion stretches out in the rear of my
master's state (dkranda); whether with the intention of averting the
internal trouble in his own state or of preventing a foreign invasion
or the inroads of a wild chief; whether in view of causing the
approaching time of my master's expedition to lapse; whether with
the desire of collecting raw materials and merchandise, or of
repairing his fortifications, or of recruiting a strong army capable
to fight; whether waiting for the time and opportunity necessary for
the complete training of his own army; or whether in view of
making a desirable alliance in order to avert the present contempt
brought about by his own carelessness, this king detains me thus?

Then he may stay or get out as he deems it desirable; or he
may demand a speedy settlement of his mission.

Or having intimated an unfavourable order (sdsana) to the
enemy, and pretending apprehension of imprisonment or death, he
may return even without permission; otherwise he may be
punished.

Transmission of missions, maintenance of treaties, issue of
ultimatum (pratdpa), gaining of friends, intrigue, sowing
dissension among friends, fetching secret force; carrying away by
stealth relatives and gems, gathering information about the
movements of spies, bravery, breaking of treaties of peace,
winning over the favour of the envoy and government officers of
the enemy, ---these are the duties of an envoy (dita).

43
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The king shall employ his own envoys to carry on works of
the above description, and guard himself against (the mischief of)
foreign envoys by employing counter envoys, spies, and visible
and invisible watchmen.

[Thus ends Chapter XVI, “The Mission of Envoys” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XVII. PROTECTION OF PRINCES.
Protection of Princes

HAVING secured his own personal safety first from his
wives and sons, the king can be in a position to maintain the
security of his kingdom against immediate enemies as well as
foreign kings.

We shall treat of "Protection of Wives" in connection with
"Duties toward's the Harem.”

Ever since the birth of princes, the king shall take special
care of them.

“For,” says Bhdradvdja, “princes like crabs have a notorious
tendency of eating up their begetter. When they are wanting in
filial affection, they shall better be punished in secret
(updmsudandah).”

"This is,” says Visdldksha, “cruelty, destruction of fortune,
and extirpation of the seed of the race of Kshartriyas. Hence it is
better to keep them under guard in a definite place.”

“This,” say the school of Pardsara, “is akin to the fear from a
lurking snake (ahibhayam); for a prince may think that

44
Kautilya's Arthashastra

apprehensive of danger, his father has locked him up, and may
attempt to put his own father on his lap. Hence it is better to keep a
prince under the custody of boundary guards or inside a fort.”

"This," says Pisuna, “is akin to the fear (from a wolf in the
midst) of a flock of sheep (aurabhrakam bhayam); for after
understanding the cause of his rustication, he may avail himself of
the opportunity to, make an alliance with the boundary guards
(against his father). Hence it is better to throw him inside a fort
belonging to a foreign king far away from his own state.”

“This,” says Kaunapadanta, “is akin to the position of a calf
(vatsasthdnam); for just as a man milks a cow with the help of its
calf, so the foreign king may milk (reduce) the prince's father.
Hence it is better to make a prince live with his maternal relations.”

“This,” says Vdtavyddhi “is akin to the position of a flag
(dhvajasthdnamétat): for as in the case of Aditi and Kausika, the
prince's maternal relations may, unfurling this flag, go on begging.
Hence princes may be suffered to dissipate their lives by sensual
excesses (grdmyadharma) inasmuch as revelling sons do not
dislike their indulgent father."

"This," says Kautilya, "is death in life; for no sooner is a royal
family with a prince or princes given to dissipation attacked, than it
perishes like a worm-eaten piece of wood. Hence when the queen
attains the age favourable for procreation, priests shall offer to
Indra and Brihaspati the requisite oblations. When she is big with a
child, the king shall observe the instructions of midwifery with
regard to gestation and delivery. After delivery, the priests shall
perform the prescribed purificatory ceremonials. When the prince
attains the necessary age, adepts shall train him under proper
discipline.”

45
Kautilya's Arthashastra

"Any one of the classmate spies,” say (politicians known as)
Ambhiyas, "may allure the prince towards hunting, gambling,
liquor, and women, and instigate him to attack his own father and
snatch the reins of government in his own hands. Another spy shall
prevent him from such acts.”

"There can be," says Kautilya, "no greater crime or sin than
making wicked impressions on an innocent mind; just as a fresh
object is stained with whatever it is brought in close association, so
a prince with fresh mind is apt to regard as scientific injunctions all
that he is told of. Hence he shall be taught only of righteousness
and of wealth (artha), but not of unrighteousness and of
non-wealth. Classmate spies shall be so courteous towards him as
to say "thine are we.” When under the temptation of youth, he turns
his eye towards women, impure women under the disguise of
Aryas shall, at night and in lonely places, terrify him; when fond of
liquor, he shall be terrified by making him drink such liquor as is
adulterated with narcotics (ydgapdna); when fond of gambling, he
shall be terrified by spies under the disguise of fraudulent persons;
when fond of hunting, he shall be terrified by spies under the
disguise of highway robbers; and when desirous of attacking his
own father, he shall, under the pretence of compliance, be
gradually persuaded of the evil consequences of such attempts, by
telling: a king is not made by a mere wish; failure of thy attempt
will bring about thy own death; success makes thee fall into hell
and causes the people to lament (for thy father) and destroy the
only clod (ekaldshtavadhascha, i.e., thyself)."

When a king has an only son who is either devoid of worldly
pleasures or is a favourite child, the king may keep him under
chains. If a king has many sons, he may send some of them to
where there is no heir apparent, nor a child either just born or in the
embryo.

46
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a prince is possessed of good and amicable qualities, he
may be made the commander-in-chief or installed as heir apparent.

Sons are of three kinds: those of sharp intelligence; those of
stagnant intelligence; and those of perverted mind.

Whoever carries into practice whatever he is taught
concerning righteousness and wealth is one of sharp intelligence;
whoever never carries into practice the good instructions he has
imbibed is one of stagnant intelligence; and whoever entangles
himself in dangers and hates righteousness and wealth is one of
perverted mind.

If a king has an only son (of the last type), attempts shall be
made to procreating a son to him; or sons may be begotten on his
daughters.

When a king is too old or diseased (to beget sons), he may
appoint a maternal relation or a blood relation (kulya) of his or any
one of his neighbouring kings possessed of good and amicable
qualities to sow the seed in his own field (kshétrebijam, i.e., to
beget a son on his wife.)

But never shall a wicked and an only son be installed on the
royal throne.

A royal father who is the only prop for many (people) shall be
favourably disposed towards his son. Except in dangers,
sovereignty falling to the lot of the eldest (son) is always respected.
Sovereignty may (sometimes) be the property of a clan; for the
corporation of clans is invincible in its nature and being free from
the calamities of anarchy, can have a permanent existence on earth.

[Thus ends Chapter XVII, “Protection of Princes” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

47
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XVIII. THE CONDUCT OF A PRINCE KEPT
UNDER RESTRAINT AND THE TREATMENT OF A
RESTRAINED PRINCE.

A PRINCE, though put to troubles and employed in an
unequal task, shall yet faithfully follow his father unless that task
costs his life, enrages the people, or causes any other serious
calamities. If he is employed in a good or meritorious work, he
shall try to win the good graces of the superintendent of that work,
carry the work to a profitable end beyond expectation, and present
his father with the proportional profit derived from that work as
well as with the excessive profit due to his skill. If the king is not
still pleased with him and shows undue partiality to another prince
and other wives, he may request the king to permit him for a
forest-life.

Or if he apprehends imprisonment or death, he may seek
refuge under a neighbouring king who is known to be righteous,
charitable, truthful, and not given to cunning, but also welcomes
and respects guests of good character. Residing therein he may
provide himself with men and money, contract
marriage-connection with influential personages, and not only
make alliance with wild tribes, but win over the parties (in his
father's state).

Or moving alone, he may earn his livelihood by working in
gold mines or ruby mines or by manufacturing gold and silver
ornaments or any other commercial commodities. Having acquired
close intimacy with heretics (pdshanda), rich widows, or
merchants carrying on ocean traffic he may, by making use of
poison (madanarasa), rob them of their wealth as well as the
wealth of gods unless the latter is enjoyable by Brdhmans learned
in the Vedas. Or he may adopt such measures as are employed to

48
Kautilya's Arthashastra

capture the villages of a foreign king. Or he may proceed (against
his father) with the help of the servants of his mother.

Or having disguised himself as a painter, a carpenter,
court-bard, a physician, a buffoon, or a heretic, and assisted by
spies under similar disguise, he may, when opportunity affords
itself, present himself armed with weapons and poison before the
king, and address him :--

"I am the heir-apparent; it does not become thee to enjoy the
state alone when it is enjoyable by both of us, or when others justly
desire such enjoyment; I ought not to be kept away by awarding an
allowance of double the subsistence and salary."

These are the measures that a prince kept under restraint has
to take.

Spies or his mother, natural or adoptive, may reconcile an
heir-apparent under restraint and bring him to the court.

Or secret emissaries armed with weapons and poison may kill
an abandoned prince. If he is not abandoned, he may be caught
hold of at night by employing women equal to the occasion, or by
making use of liquor, or on the occasion of hunting, and brought
back (to the court).

When thus brought back, he shall be conciliated by the king
with promise of sovereignty ‘after me’ (i.e., after the king's death),
and kept under guard, in a definite locality. Or if the king has many
sons, an unruly prince may be banished.

[Thus ends Chapter XVIII, “The Conduct of a Prince kept under

Restraint and the Treatment of a Restrained Prince,” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

49
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XIX. THE DUTIES OF A KING.

IF aking is energetic, his subjects will be equally energetic. If
he is reckless, they will not only be reckless likewise, but also eat
into his works. Besides, a reckless king will easily fall into the
hands of his enemies. Hence the king shall ever be wakeful.

He shall divide both the day and the night into eight ndlikas
(12 hours), or according to the length of the shadow (cast by a
gnomon standing in the sun): the shadow of three purushds (36
angulds or inches), of one purushd (12 inches), of four angulds (4
inches), and absence of shadow denoting midday are the four
one-eighth divisions of the forenoon; like divisions (in the reverse
order) in the afternoon.

Of these divisions, during the first one-eighth part of the day,
he shall post watchmen and attend to the accounts of receipts and
expenditure; during the second part, he shall look to the affairs of
both citizens and country people; during the third, he shall not only
bathe and dine, but also study; during the fourth, he shall not only
receive revenue in gold (hiranya), but also attend to the
appointments of superintendents; during the fifth, he shall
correspond in writs (patrasampreshanena) with the assembly of
his ministers, and receive the secret information gathered by his
spies; during the sixth, he may engage himself in his favourite
amusements or in self-deliberation; during the seventh, he shall
superintend elephants, horses, chariots, and infantry, and during
the eighth part, he shall consider various plans of military
operations with his commander-in-chief.

At the close of the day, he shall observe the evening prayer
(sandhya).

50
Kautilya's Arthashastra

During the first one-eighth part of the night, he shall receive
secret emissaries; during the second, he shall attend to bathing and
supper and study; during the third, he shall enter the bed-chamber
amid the sound of trumpets and enjoy sleep during the fourth and
fifth parts; having been awakened by the sound of trumpets during
the sixth part, he shall recall to his mind the injunctions of sciences
as well as the day's duties; during the seventh, he shall sit
considering administrative measures and send out spies; and
during the eighth division of the night, he shall receive
benedictions from sacrificial priests, teachers, and the high priest,
and having seen his physician, chief cook and astrologer, and
having saluted both a cow with its calf and a bull by
circumambulating round them, he shall get into his court.

Or in conformity to his capacity, he may alter the timetable
and attend to his duties.

When in the court, he shall never cause his petitioners to wait
at the door, for when a king makes himself inaccessible to his
people and entrusts his work to his immediate officers, he may be
sure to engender confusion in business, and to cause thereby public
disaffection, and himself a prey to his enemies.

He shall, therefore, personally attend to the business of gods,
of heretics, of Brahmans learned in the Vedas, of cattle, of sacred
places, of minors, the aged, the afflicted, and the helpless, and of
women;---all this in order (of enumeration) or according to the
urgency or pressure of those works.

All urgent calls he shall hear at once, but never put off; for
when postponed, they will prove too hard or impossible to
accomplish.

Having seated himself in the room where the sacred fire has

51
Kautilya's Arthashastra

been kept, he shall attend to the business of physicians and ascetics
practising austerities; and that in company with his high priest and
teacher and after preliminary salutation (to the petitioners).

Accompanied by persons proficient in the three sciences
(trividya) but not alone lest the petitioners be offended, he shall
look to the business of those who are practising austerities, as well
as of those who are experts in witchcraft and Yoga.

Of a king, the religious vow is his readiness to action;
satisfactory discharge of duties is his performance of sacrifice;
equal attention to all is the offer of fees and ablution towards
consecration.

In the happiness of his subjects lies his happiness; in their
welfare his welfare; whatever pleases himself he shall not consider
as good, but whatever pleases his subjects he shall consider as
good.

Hence the king shall ever be active and discharge his duties;
the root of wealth is activity, and of evil its reverse.

In the absence of activity acquisitions present and to come
will perish; by activity he can achieve both his desired ends and

abundance of wealth.

[Thus ends Chapter XIX, “The Duties of a King” in Book L
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

CHAPTER XX. DUTY TOWARDS THE HAREM.

ON a site naturally best fitted for the purpose, the king shall
52
Kautilya's Arthashastra

construct his harem consisting of many compartments, one within
the other, enclosed by a parapet and a ditch, and provided with a
door.

He shall construct his own residential palace after the model
of his treasury-house; or he may have his residential abode in the
centre of the delusive chamber (mdhanagriha), provided with
secret passages made into the walls; or in an underground chamber
provided with the figures of goddesses and of altars (chaitya)
carved on the wooden door-frame, and connected with many
underground passages for exit; or in an upper storey provided with
a staircase hidden in a wall, with a passage for exit made in a
hollow pillar, the whole building being so constructed with
mechanical contrivance as to be caused to fall down when
necessary.

Or considering the danger from his own classmates
(sahddhydyi), such contrivances as the above, mainly intended as
safeguards against danger, may be made on occasions of danger or
otherwise as he deems fit.

No other kind of fire can burn that harem which is thrice
circumambulated from right to left by a fire of human make
(manushéndgnina); nor can there be kindled any other fire. Nor can
fire destroy that harem the walls of which are made of mud mixed
with ashes produced by lightning, and wetted in hail-water
(karaka-vdri).

Poisonous snakes will not dare to enter into such buildings as
are provided with Jivanti (Feederia Feetida), svéta (Aconitum
Ferox), wmushkakapushpa (7), and vanddka (Epidendrum
Tesselatum), and as are protected by the branches of péjdta (?) and
of asvattha (Ficus Religiosa).

53
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Cats, peacocks, mangooses, and the spotted deer eat up
snakes.

Parrots, minas (sdrika), and Malbar birds (bhringardja)
shriek when they perceive the smell of snake-poison.

The heron (crauncha) swoons in the vicinity of poison; the
pheasant (jivanjivaka) feels distress; the youthful cuckoo
(mattakokila) dies; the eyes of partridge (chakora) are reddened.

Thus remedies shall be applied against fire and poison.

On one side in the rear of the harem, there shall be made for
the residence of women compartments provided not only with all
kinds of medicines useful in midwifery and diseases, but also with
well known pot-herbs (prakhydtasamsthdvriksha), and a
water-reservoir; outside these compartments, the residences of
princes and princesses; in front (of the latter building), the
toilet-ground ~~ (alankdra  bhimih), the  council-ground
(mantrabhimib), the court, and the offices of the heir-apparent and
of superintendents.

In the intervening places between two compartments, the
army of the officer in charge of the harem shall be stationed.

When in the interior of the harem, the king shall see the queen
only when her personal purity is vouchsafed by an old
maid-servant. He shall not touch any woman (unless he is apprised
of her personal purity); for hidden in the queen's chamber, his own
brother slew king Bhadrasena; hiding himself under the bed of his
mother, the son killed king Kdrusa; mixing fried rice with poison,
as though with honey, his own queen poisoned Kdsirdja; with an
anklet painted with poison, his own queen killed Vairantya; with a
gem of her zone bedaubed with poison, his own queen killed

54
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Sauvira; with a looking glass painted with poison, his own queen
killed Jdlitha; and with a weapon hidden under her tuft of hair, his
own queen slew Vidiiratha.

Hence the king shall always be careful to avoid such lurking
dangers. He shall keep away his wives from the society of ascetics
with shaved head or braided hair, of buffoons, and of outside
prostitutes (ddsi). Nor shall women of high birth have occasion to
see his wives except appointed midwives.

Prostitutes (ridpdjiva) with personal cleanliness effected by
fresh bath and with fresh garments and ornaments shall attend the
harem.

Eighty men and fifty women under the guise of fathers and
mothers, and aged persons, and eunuchs shall not only ascertain
purity and impurity in the life of the inmates of the harem, but also
so regulate the affairs as to be conducive to the happiness of the
king.

Every person in the harem shall live in the place assigned to
him, and shall never move to the place assigned to others. No one
of the harem shall at any time keep company with any outsider.

The passage of all kinds of commodities from or into the
harem shall be restricted and shall, after careful examination, be
allowed to reach their destination either inside or outside the harem
as indicated by the seal-mark (mudrd).

[Thus ends Chapter XX, “Duty towards the Harem” in Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

55
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XXI. PERSONAL SAFETY.

ON getting up from the bed, the king shall be received by
troops of women armed with bows. In the second compartment, he
shall be received by the Kanchuki (presenter of the king's coat), the
Ushnisi (presenter of king's head-dress), aged persons, and other
harem attendants.

In the third compartment, he shall be received by crooked and
dwarfish persons; in the fourth, by prime ministers, kinsmen, and
door-keepers with barbed missiles in their hand.

The king shall employ as his personal attendants those whose
fathers and grandfathers had been royal servants, those who bear
close relationship to the king, those who are well trained and loyal,
and those who have rendered good service.

Neither foreigners, nor those who have earned neither
rewards nor honour by rendering good service, nor even natives
found engaged in inimical works shall form the bodyguard of the
king or the troops of the officers in charge of the harem.

In a well-guarded locality, the head-cook (mdhdnasika) shall
supervise the preparation of varieties of relishing dishes. The king
shall partake of such fresh dishes after making an oblation out of
them first to the fire and then to birds.

When the flame and the smoke turn blue and crackle, and
when birds (that eat the oblation) die, presence of poison (in the
dish) shall be inferred. When the vapour arising from cooked rice
possesses the colour of the neck of a peacock, and appears chill as
if suddenly cooled, when vegetables possess an unnatural colour,
and are watery and hardened, and appear to have suddenly turned
dry, being possessed of broken layers of blackish foam, and being

56
Kautilya's Arthashastra

devoid of smell, touch and taste natural to them; when utensils
reflect light either more or less than usual, and are covered with a
layer of foam at their edges; when any liquid preparation possesses
streaks on its surface; when milk bears a bluish streak in the centre
of its surface; when liquor and water possess reddish streaks; when
curd is marked with black and dark streaks, and honey with white
streaks; when watery things appear parched as if overcooked and
look blue and swollen; when dry things have shrinked and changed
in their colour; when hard things appear soft, and soft things hard;
when minute animalcule die in the vicinity of the dishes; when
carpets and curtains possess blackish circular spots, with their
threads and hair fallen off; when metallic vessels set with gems
appear tarnished as though by roasting, and have lost their polish,
colour, shine, and softness of touch, presence of poison shall be
inferred.

As to the person who has administered poison, the marks are
parched and dry mouth; hesitation in speaking; heavy perspiration;
yawning; too much bodily tremour; frequent tumbling; evasion of
speech; carelessness in work; and unwillingness to keep to the
place assigned to him.

Hence physicians and experts capable of detecting poison
shall ever attend upon the king.

Having taken out from the store-room of medicines that
medicine the purity of which has been proved by experiment, and
having himself together with the decoctioner and the purveyor
(pdchaka and pdshaka) tasted it, the physician shall hand over the
medicine to the king. The same rule shall apply to liquor and other
beverages.

Having cleaned their person and hands by fresh bath and put
on newly-washed garment, servants in charge of dresses, and

57
Kautilya's Arthashastra

toilets shall serve the king with dresses and toilets received under
seal from the officer in charge of the harem.

Prostitutes shall do the duty of bath-room servants,
shampooers, bedding-room servants, washermen, and flower
garland-makers, while presenting to the king water, scents, fragrant
powders, dress and garlands, servants along with the above
prostitutes shall first touch these things by their eyes, arms and
breast.

The same rule shall apply to whatever has been received from
an outside person.

Musicians shall entertain the king with those kinds of
amusements in which weapons, fire, and poison are not made use
of. Musical instruments as well as the ornaments of horses,
chariots, and elephants shall invariably be kept inside (the harem).

The king shall mount over chariots or beasts of burden only
when they are first mounted over by his hereditary driver or rider.

He shall get into a boat only when it is piloted by a
trustworthy sailor and is conjoined to a second boat. He shall never
sail on any ship which had once been weatherbeaten; and (while
boating on a good ship) his army shall all the while stand on the
bank or the shore.

He shall get into such water as is free from large fishes
(matsya) and crocodiles. He shall ramble only in such forests as are
freed from snakes and crocodiles (grdha).

With a view of acquiring efficiency in the skill of shooting
arrows at moving objects, he shall engage himself in sports in such
forests as are cleared by hunters and hound-keepers from the fear
of high-way-robbers, snakes, and enemies.

58
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Attended by trustworthy bodyguard armed with weapons, he
shall give interview to saints and ascetics. Surrounded by his
assembly of minsters, he shall receive the envoys of foreign states.

Attired in military dress and having mounted a horse, a
chariot, or an elephant, he shall go see his army equipped in
military array.

On the occaision of going out of, and coming into (the
capital), the king's road shall on both sides be well guarded by
staff-bearers and freed from the presence of armed persons,
ascetics, and the cripple (vyanga).

He shall go to witness festive trains, fairs (ydtra), procession,
or sacrificial performances only when they are policed by bands of
“The Ten Communities.” (dasavargikadhishthitdni).

Just as he attends to the personal safety of others through the
agency of spies, so a wise king shall also take care to secure his
person from external dangers.

[Thus ends Chapter XX, “Personal Safety” in Book I, “Concerning
Discipline” of the Arthasastra of Kautilya. With this, the Book I,
“Concerning Discipline” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya, has
ended. ]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 1-50.

59
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book 11, "The Duties of
Government Superintendents”

CHAPTER I. FORMATION OF VILLAGES.

EITHER by inducing foreigners to immigrate
(paradesapravdhanena) or by causing the thickly-populated
centres of his own kingdom to send forth the excessive population
(svadésdbhishyandavdmanéna vd), the king may construct villages
either on new sites or on old ruins (bhiitapiirvama vd).

Villages consisting each of not less than a hundred families
and of not more than five-hundred families of agricultural people
of siidra caste, with boundaries extending as far as a krdsa (2250
yds.) or two, and capable of protecting each other shall be formed.
Boundaries shall be denoted by a river, a mountain, forests,
bulbous plants (grishti), caves, artificial buildings (sétubandha), or
by trees such as sdlmali (silk cotton tree), sami (Acacia Suma), and
kshiravriksha (milky trees).

There shall be set up a sthdniya (a fortress of that name) in the
centre of eight-hundred villages, a dronamukha in the centre of
four-hundred villages, a khdrvétika in the centre of two-hundred
villages and sangrahana in the midst of a collection of ten villages.

There shall be constructed in the extremities of the kingdom
forts manned by boundary-guards (antapdla) whose duty shall be
to guard the entrances into the kingdom. The interior of the
kingdom shall be watched by trap-keepers (vdgurika), archers
(sdbara), hunters (pulinda), chanddlas, and wild tribes
(aranyachdra).

60
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Those who perform sacrifices (ritvik), spiritual guides,
priests, and those learned in the Vedas shall be granted
Brahmadaya lands yielding sufficient produce and exempted from
taxes and fines (adandkardni).

Superintendents, Accountants, Gopas, Sthdnikas, Veterinary
Surgeons (Anikastha), physicians, horse-trainers, and messengers
shall also be endowed with lands which they shall have no right to
alienate by sale or mortgage.

Lands prepared for cultivation shall be given to tax-payers
(karada) only for life (ekapurushikdni).

Unprepared lands shall not be taken away from those who are
preparing them for cultivation.

Lands may be confiscated from those who do not cultivate
them; and given to others; or they may be cultivated by village
labourers (grdmabhritaka) and traders (vaidehaka), lest those
owners who do not properly cultivate them might pay less (to the
government). If cultivators pay their taxes easily, they may be
favourably supplied with grains, cattle, and money.

The king shall bestow on cultivators only such favour and
remission (anugrahaparihdrau) as will tend to swell the treasury,
and shall avoid such as will deplete it.

A king with depleted treasury will eat into the very vitality of
both citizens and country people. Either on the occasion of opening
new settlements or on any other emergent occasions, remission of
taxes shall be made.

He shall regard with fatherly kindness those who have passed
the period of remission of taxes.

61
Kautilya's Arthashastra

He shall carry on mining operations and manufactures,
exploit timber and elephant forests, offer facilities for
cattlebreeding and commerce, construct roads for traffic both by
land and water, and set up market towns (panyapattana).

He shall also construct reservoirs (sétu) filled with water
either perennial or drawn from some other source. Or he may
provide with sites, roads, timber, and other necessary things those
who construct reservoirs of their own accord. Likewise in the
construction of places of pilgrimage (punyasthdna) and of groves.

Whoever stays away from any kind of cooperative
construction (sambhiiya setubhandhdr) shall send his servants and
bullocks to carry on his work, shall have a share in the expenditure,
but shall have no claim to the profit.

The king shall exercise his right of ownership (swdmyam)
with regard to fishing, ferrying and trading in vegetables
(haritapanya) in reservoirs or lakes (sétushu).

Those who do not heed the claims of their slaves (ddsa),
hirelings (dhitaka), and relatives shall be taught their duty.

The king shall provide the orphans, (bdla), the aged, the
infirm, the afflicted, and the helpless with maintenance. He shall
also provide subsistence to helpless women when they are carrying
and also to the children they give birth to.

Elders among the villagers shall improve the property of
bereaved minors till the latter attain their age; so also the property
of Gods.

When a capable person other than an apostate (patita) or
mother neglects to maintain his or her child, wife, mother, father,

62
Kautilya's Arthashastra

minor brothers, sisters, or widowed girls (kanyd vidhavdscha), he
or she shall be punished with a fine of twelve panas.

When, without making provision for the maintenance of his
wife and sons, any person embraces ascetism, he shall be punished
with the first amercement; likewise any person who converts a
woman to ascetism (pravrdjayatah).

Whoever has passed the age of copulation may become an
ascetic after distributing the properties of his own acquisition
(among his sons); otherwise, he will be punished.

No ascetic other than a vdnaprastha (forest-hermit), no
company other than the one of local birth (sajdtddanyassanghah),
and no guilds of any kind other than local cooperative guilds
(sdamutthdyikd-danyassamaydnubandhah) shall find entrance into
the villages of the kingdom. Nor shall there be in villages buildings
(sdldh) intended for sports and plays. Nor, in view of procuring
money, free labour, commodities, grains, and liquids in plenty,
shall actors, dancers, singers, drummers, buffoons (vdgjivana), and
bards (kusilava) make any disturbance to the work of the villagers;
for helpless villagers are always dependent and bent upon their
fields.

The king shall avoid taking possession of any country which
is liable to the inroads of enemies and wild tribes and which is
harassed by frequent visitations of famine and pestilence. He shall
also keep away from expensive sports.

He shall protect agriculture from the molestation of
oppressive fines, free labour, and taxes (dandavishtikardbddhaih),
herds of cattle from thieves, tigers, poisonous creatures and
cattle-disease.

He shall not only clear roads of traffic from the molestations

63
Kautilya's Arthashastra

of courtiers (vallabha), of workmen (kdrmika), of robbers, and of
boundary-guards, but also keep them from being destroyed by
herds of cattle.

Thus the king shall not only keep in good repair timber and
elephant forests, buildings, and mines created in the past, but also
set up new ones.

[Thus ends Chapter I, "Formation of Villages” in Book II, “The
Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of twenty-second chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. DIVISION OF LAND.

THE King shall make provision for pasture grounds on
uncultivable tracts.

Brahmans shall be provided with forests for séma plantation,
for religious learning, and for the performance of penance, such
forests being rendered safe from the dangers from animate or
inanimate objects, and being named after the tribal name (gotra) of
the Brahmans resident therein.

A forest as extensive as the above, provided with only one
entrance rendered inaccessible by the construction of ditches all
round, with plantations of delicious fruit trees, bushes, bowers, and
thornless trees, with an expansive lake of water full of harmless
animals, and with tigers (vydla), beasts of prey (mdrgdyuka), male
and female elephants, young elephants, and bisons—all deprived
of their claws and teeth—shall be formed for the king's sports.

On the extreme limit of the country or in any other suitable

64
Kautilya's Arthashastra

locality, another game-forest with game-beasts; open to all, shall
also be made. In view of procuring all kinds of forest-produce
described elsewhere, one or several forests shall be specially
reserved.

Manufactories to prepare commodities from forest produce
shall also be set up.

Wild tracts shall be separated from timber-forests. In the
extreme limit of the country, elephant forests, separated from wild
tracts, shall be formed.

The superintendent of forests with his retinue of forest guards
shall not only maintain the up-keep of the forests, but also acquaint
himself with all passages for entrance into, or exit from such of
them as are mountainous or boggy or contain rivers or lakes.

Whoever kills an elephant shall be put to death.

Whoever brings in the pair of tusks of an elephant, dead from
natural causes, shall receive a reward of four-and-a-half panas.

Guards of elephant forests, assisted by those who rear
elephants, those who enchain the legs of elephants, those who
guard the boundaries, those who live in forests, as well as by those
who nurse elephants, shall, with the help of five or seven female
elephants to help in tethering wild ones, trace the whereabouts of
herds of elephants by following the course of urine and dungs left
by elephants and along forest-tracts covered over with branches of
Bhallataki (Semicarpus Anacardium), and by observing the spots
where elephants slept or sat before or left dungs, or where they had
just destroyed the banks of rivers or lakes. They shall also precisely
ascertain whether any mark is due to the movements of elephants
in herds, of an elephant roaming single, of a stray elephant, of a

65
Kautilya's Arthashastra

leader of herds, of a tusker, of a rogue elephant, of an elephant in
rut, of a young elephant, or of an elephant that has escaped from the
cage.

Experts in catching elephants shall follow the instructions
given to them by the elephant doctor (anikastha) and catch such
elephants as are possessed of auspicious characteristics and good
character.

The victory of kings (in battles) depends mainly upon
elephants; for elephants, being of large bodily frame, are capable
not only to destroy the arrayed army of an enemy, his fortifications,
and encampments, but also to undertake works that are dangerous
to life.

Elephants bred in countries, such as Kdlinga, Anga, Kartsa,
and the East are the best; those of the Dasdrna and western
countries are of middle quality; and those of Saurdshtra and
Panchajana countries are of low quality. The might and energy of
all can, however, be improved by suitable training.

[Thus ends Chapter II, “Division of Land” in Book II, “The Duties
of Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of twenty-third chapter from the beginning. |

CHAPTER III. CONSTRUCTION OF FORTS

ON all the four quarters of the boundaries of the kingdom,
defensive fortifications against an enemy in war shall be
constructed on grounds best fitted for the purpose: a
water-fortification (audaka) such as an island in the midst of a
river, or a plain surrounded by low ground; a mountainous

66
Kautilya's Arthashastra

fortification (pdrvata) such as a rocky tract or a cave; a desert
(dhdnvana) such as a wild tract devoid of water and overgrown
with thicket growing in barren soil; or a forest fortification
(vanadurga) full of wagtail (khajana), water and thickets.

Of these, water and mountain fortifications are best suited to
defend populous centres; and desert and forest fortifications are
habitations in wilderness (atavisthdnam).

Or with ready preparations for flight the king may have his
fortified capital (sthdniya) as the seat of his sovereignty
(samudaydsthdnam) in the centre of his kingdom: in a locality
naturally best fitted for the purpose, such as the bank of the
confluence of rivers, a deep pool of perennial water, or of a lake or
tank, a fort, circular, rectangular, or square in form, surrounded
with an artificial canal of water, and connected with both land and
water paths (may be constructed).

Round this fort, three ditches with an intermediate space of
one danda (6 ft.) from each other, fourteen, twelve and ten dandas
respectively in width, with depth less by one quarter or by one-half
of their width, square at their bottom and one-third as wide as at
their top, with sides built of stones or bricks, filled with perennial
flowing water or with water drawn from some other source, and
possessing crocodiles and lotus plants shall be constructed.

At a distance of four dandas (24 ft.) from the (innermost)
ditch, a rampart six dandas high and twice as much broad shall be
erected by heaping mud upwards and by making it square at the
bottom, oval at the centre pressed by the trampling of elephants and
bulls, and planted with thorny and poisonous plants in bushes.
Gaps in the rampart shall be filled up with fresh earth.

Above the rampart, parapets in odd or even numbers and with
an intermediate, space of from 12 to 24 hastas from each other shall

67
Kautilya's Arthashastra

be built of bricks and raised to a height of twice their breadth.

The passage for chariots shall be made of trunks of palm trees
or of broad and thick slabs of stones with spheres like the head of a
monkey carved on their surface; but never of wood as fire finds a
happy abode in it.

Towers, square throughout and with moveable staircase or
ladder equal to its height, shall also be constructed.

In the intermediate space measuring thirty dandas between
two towers, there shall be formed a broad street in two
compartments covered over with a roof and two-and-half times as
long as it is broad.

Between the tower and the broad street there shall be
constructed an Indrakésa which is made up of covering pieces of
wooden planks affording seats for three archers.

There shall also be made a road for Gods which shall
measure two hastas inside (the towers ?), four times as much by the
sides, and eight hastas along the parapet.

Paths (chdrya, to ascend the parapet ?) as broad as a danda (6
ft.) or two shall also be made.

In an unassailable part (of the rampart), a passage for flight
(pradhdvitikdm), and a door for exit (nishkuradwdram) shall be
made.

Outside the rampart, passages for movements shall be closed
by forming obstructions such as a knee-breaker (jdnubhanjani), a
trident, mounds of earth, pits, wreaths of thorns, instruments made
like the tail of a snake, palm leaf, triangle, and of dog's teeth, rods,

68
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ditches filled with thorns and covered with sand, frying pans and
water-pools.

Having made on both sides of the rampart a circular hole of a
danda-and-a-half in diametre, an entrance gate (to the fort)
one-sixth as broad as the width of the street shall be fixed.

A square (chaturdsra) is formed by successive addition of
one danda up to eight dandas commencing from five, or in the
proportion, one-sixth of the length up to one-eighth.

The rise in level (talotsedhah) shall be made by successive
addition of one hasta up to 18 hastas commencing from 15 hastas.

In fixing a pillar, six parts are to form its height, on the floor,
twice as much (12 parts) to be entered into the ground, and
one-fourth for its capital.

Of the first floor, five parts (are to be taken) for the formation
of a hall (sdld), a well, and a boundary-house; two-tenths of it for
the formation of two platforms opposite to each other
(pratimanchau); an upper storey twice as high as its width;
carvings of images; an upper-most storey, half or three-fourths as
broad as the first floor; side walls built of bricks; on the left side, a
staircase circumambulating from left to right; on the right, a secret
staircase hidden in the wall; a top-support of ornamental arches
(toranasirah) projecting as far as two hastas; two door-panels,
(each) occupying three-fourths of the space; two and two
cross-bars (parigha, to fasten the door); an iron-bolt (indrakila) as
long as an aratni (24 angulas); a boundary gate (dnidvdram) five
hastas in width; four beams to shut the door against elephants; and
turrets (hastinakha) (outside the rampart) raised up to the height of
the face of a man, removable or irremovable, or made of earth in
places devoid of water.

69
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A turret above the gate and starting from the top of the parapet
shall be constructed, its front resembling an alligator up to
three-fourths of its height.

In the centre of the parapets, there shall be constructed a deep
lotus pool; a rectangular building of four compartments, one within
the other; an abode of the Goddess Kumiri (Kumdripuram), having
its external area one-and-a-half times as broad as that of its
innermost room; a circular building with an arch way; and in
accordance with available space and materials, there shall also be
constructed canals (kulyd) to hold weapons and three times as long
as broad.

In those canals, there shall be collected stones, spades
(kudddla), axes (kuthdri), varieties of staffs, cudgel (musrinthi),
hammers (mudgara), clubs, discus, machines (yantra), and such
weapons as can destroy a hundred persons at once (sataghni),
together with spears, tridents, bamboo-sticks with pointed edges
made of iron, camel-necks, explosives (agnisamydgas), and
whatever else can be devised and formed from available materials.

[Thus ends Chapter III, "Construction of Forts,” in Book II, “The

Duties of Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of twenty-fourth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER 1V. BUILDINGS WITHIN THE FORT.
DEMARCATION of the ground inside the fort shall be made

first by opening three royal roads from west to east and three from
south to north.

70
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The fort shall contain twelve gates, provided with both a land
and water-way kept secret.

Chariot-roads, royal roads, and roads leading to drénamukha,
sthaniya, country parts, and pasture grounds shall each be four
dandas (24 ft.) in width.

Roads leading to sayoniya (?), military stations (vyiha),
burial or cremation grounds, and to villages shall be eight dandas in
width.

Roads to gardens, groves, and forests shall be four dandas.
Roads leading to elephant forests shall be two dandas.

Roads for chariots shall be five aratnis (7%2 ft.). Roads for
cattle shall measure four aratnis; and roads for minor quadrupeds
and men two aratnis.

Royal buildings shall be constructed on strong grounds.

In the midst of the houses of the people of all the four castes
and to the north from the centre of the ground inside the fort, the
king’s palace, facing either the north or the east shall, as described
elsewhere (Chapter XX, Book I), be constructed occupying
one-ninth of the whole site inside the fort.

Royal teachers, priests, sacrificial place, water-reservoir and
ministers shall occupy sites east by north to the palace.

Royal kitchen, elephant stables, and the store-house shall be
situated on sites east by south.

On the eastern side, merchants trading in scents, garlands,
grains, and liquids, together with expert artisans and the people of

71
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Kshatriya caste shall have their habitations.

The treasury, the accountant’s office, and various
manufactories (karmanishadydscha) shall be situated on sites
south by east.

The store-house of forest produce and the arsenal shall be
constructed on sites south by west.

To the south, the superintendents of the city, of commerce, of
manufactories, and of the army as well as those who trade in
cooked rice, liquor, and flesh, besides prostitutes, musicians, and
the people of Vaisya caste shall live.

To the west by south, stables of asses, camels, and working
house.

To the west by north, stables of conveyances and chariots.

To the west, artisans manufacturing worsted threads, cotton
threads, bamboo-mats, skins, armours, weapons, and gloves as
well as the people of Studra caste shall have their dwellings.

To the north by west, shops and hospitals.
To the north by east, the treasury and the stables of cows and
horses.

To the north, the royal tutelary deity of the city, ironsmiths,
artisans working on precious stones, as well as Brahmans shall

reside.

In the several corners, guilds and corporations of workmen
shall reside.

72
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In the centre of the city, the apartments of Gods such as
Apardjita, Apratihata, Jayanta, Vaijayanta, Siva, Vaisravana,
Asvina (divine physicians), and the honourable liquor-house
(Sri-madiragriham), shall be situated.

In the comers, the guardian deities of the ground shall be
appropriately set up.

Likewise the principal gates such as Brahma, Aindra, Ydmya,
and Saindpatya shall be constructed; and at a distance of 100 bows
(dhanus = 108 angulas) from the ditch (on the counterscarp side),
places of worship and pilgrimage, groves and buildings shall be
constructed.

Guardian deities of all quarters shall also be set up in
quarters appropriate to them.

Either to the north or the east, burial or cremation grounds
shall be situated; but that of the people of the highest caste shall be
to the south (of the city).

Violation of this rule shall be punished with the first
amercement.

Heretics and Chandélas shall live beyond the burial grounds.
Families of workmen may in any other way be provided with
sites befitting with their occupation and field work. Besides
working in flower-gardens, fruit-gardens, vegetable-gardens, and
paddy-fields allotted to them, they (families) shall collect grains

and merchandise in abundance as authorised.

There shall be a water-well for every ten houses.

73
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Oils, grains, sugar, salt, medicinal articles, dry or fresh
vegetables, meadow grass, dried flesh, haystock, firewood, metals,
skins, charcoal, tendons (sndyu), poison, homs, bamboo, fibrous
garments, strong timber, weapons, armour, and stones shall also be
stored (in the fort) in such quantities as can be enjoyed for years
together without feeling any want. Of such collection, old things
shall be replaced by new ones when received.

Elephants, cavalry, chariots, and infantry shall each be
officered with many chiefs inasmuch as chiefs, when many, are
under the fear of betrayal from each other and scarcely liable to the
insinuations and intrigues of an enemy.

The same rule shall hold good with the appointment of
boundary, guards, and repairers of fortifications.

Never shall bdhirikas who are dangerous to the well being of
cities and countries be kept in forts. They may either be thrown in
country parts or compelled to pay taxes.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, © Buildings within the Fort” in Book II,
“The Duties of the Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of twenty-fifth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. THE DUTIES OF THE CHAMBERLAIN.

THE Chamberlain (sannidhdtd = one who ever attends upon
the king) shall see to the construction of the treasury-house,
trading-house, the store-house of grains, the storehouse of forest
produce, the armoury and the jail.

74
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Having dug up a square well not too deep to be moist with
water, having paved both the bottom and the sides with slabs of
stone, he shall, by using strong timber, construct in that well a
cage-like under-ground chamber of three stories high, the top-most
being on a level with the surface of the ground, with many
compartments of various design, with floor plastered with small
stones, with one door, with a movable staircase, and solemnised
with the presence of the guardian deity.

Above this chamber, the treasury house closed on both sides,
with projecting roofs and extensively opening into the store-house
shall be built of bricks.

He may employ outcast men (abhityakta-purusha) to build at
the extreme boundary of the kingdom a palacious mansion to hold
substantial treasure against dangers and calamities.

The trading-house shall be a quadrangle enclosed by four
buildings with one door, with pillars built of burnt bricks, with
many compartments, and with a row of pillars on both sides kept
apart.

The store-house shall consist of many spacious rooms and
enclose within itself the store-house of forest produce separated
from it by means of wall and connected with both the underground
chamber and the armoury.

The court (dharmasthiya) and the office of the ministers
(mahdmdtriya) shall be built in a separate locality.

Provided with separate accommodation for men and women

kept apart and with many compartments well guarded, a jail shall
also be constructed.

75
Kautilya's Arthashastra

All these buildings shall be provided with halls (sdla) pits
(khdta—rprivy [7]), water-well, bath-room, remedies against fire
and poison, with cats, mangooses, and with necessary means to
worship the guardian gods appropriate to each.

In (front of) the store-house a bowl (kunda) with its mouth as
wide as an aratni (24 angulag) shall be set up as rain-gauge
(varshamdna).

Assisted by experts having necessary qualifications and
provided with tools and instruments, the chamberlain shall attend
to the business of receiving gems either old or new, as well as raw
materials of superior or inferior value.

In cases of deception in gems, both the deceiver and the
abettor shall be punished with the highest amercement; in the case
of superior commodities, they shall be punished with the
middle-most amercement; and in that of commodities of inferior
value, they shall be compelled not only to restore the same, but also
pay a fine equal to the value of the articles.

He shall receive only such gold coins as have been declared to
be pure by the examiner of coins.

Counterfeit coins shall be cut into pieces.

Whoever brings in counterfeit coins shall be punished with
the first amercement.

Grains pure and fresh shall be received in full measures;
otherwise a fine of twice the value of the grains shall be imposed.

The same rule shall hold good with the receipt of
merchandise, raw materials, and weapons.

76
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In all departments, whoever, whether as an officer (yukta), a
clerk (upayukta), or a servant (tatpurusha), misappropriates sums
from one to four panas or any other valuable things shall be
punished with the first, middlemost, and highest amercements and
death respectively.

If the officer who is in charge of the treasury causes loss in
money, he shall be whipped (ghdtah), while his abettors shall
receive half the punishment; if the loss is due to ignorance, he shall
be censured.

If, with the intention of giving a hint, robbers are frightened
(by the guards), (the latter) shall be tortured to death.

Hence assisted by trustworthy persons, the chamberlain shall
attend to the business of revenue collection.

He shall have so thorough a knowledge of both external and
internal incomes running even for a hundred years that, when
questioned, he can point out without hesitation the exact amount of
net balance that remains after expenditure has been met with.
[Thus ends Chapter V, "The Duty of the Chamberlain” in Book II,
"The Duties of the Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of twenty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER VI. THE BUSINESS OF COLLECTION OF
REVENUE BY THE COLLECTOR-GENERAL.

THE Collector-General shall attend to (the collection of
revenue from) forts (durga), country-parts (rdshtra), mines

77
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(khani), buildings and gardens (setu), forests (vana), herds of cattle
(vraja), and roads of traffic (vanikpatha).

Tolls, fines, weights and measures, the town-clerk
(ndgaraka), the superintendent of coinage (lakshanddhyakshah),
the superintendent of seals and pass-ports, liquor, slaughter of
animals, threads, oils,. ghee, sugar (kshdra), the state-goldsmith
(sauvarnika), the warehouse of merchandise, the prostitute,
gambling, building sites (vdstuka), the corporation of artisans and
handicrafts-men (kdrusilpiganah), the superintendent of gods, and
taxes collected at the gates and from the people (known as)
Bdhirikas come under the head of forts.

Produce from crown-lands (sita), portion of produce payable
to the government (bhdga), religious taxes (bali), taxes paid in
money (kara), merchants, the superintendent of rivers, ferries,
boats, and ships, towns, pasture grounds, road-cess (vartani), ropes
(rajjii) and ropes to bind thieves (chdrarajjii) come under the head
of country parts.

Gold, silver, diamonds, gems, pearls, corals, conch-shells,
metals (loha), salt, and other minerals extracted from plains and
mountain slopes come under the head of mines.

Flower-gardens, fruit-gardens, vegetable-gardens, wet fields,
and fields where crops are grown by sowing roots for seeds

(miilavapdh, i.e., sugar-cane crops, etc.) come under sétu.

Game-forests, timber-forests, and elephant-forests are
forests.

Cows, buffaloes, goats, sheep, asses, camels, horses, and
mules come under the head of herds.

78
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Land and water ways are the roads of traffic.
All these form the body of income (dyasariram).

Capital (mila), share (bhdga), premia (vydji), parigha (7)
fixed taxes (klripta), premia on coins (rdpika), and fixed fines
(atyaya) are the several forms of revenue (dyamukha, i.e., the
mouth from which income is to issue).

The chanting of auspicious hymns during the worship of gods
and ancestors, and on the occasion of giving gifts, the harem, the
kitchen, the establishment of messengers, the store-house, the
armoury, the warehouse, the store-house of raw materials,
manufactories (karmdnta), free labourers (vishti), maintenance of
infantry, cavalry, chariots, and elephants, herds of cows, the
museum of beasts, deer, birds, and snakes, and storage of firewood
and fodder constitute the body of expenditure (vyayasariram).

The royal year, the month, the paksha, the day, the dawn
(vyushta), the third and seventh pakshas of (the seasons such as)
the rainy season, the winter season, and the summer short of their
days, the rest complete, and a separate intercalary month are (the
divisions of time).

He shall also pay attention to the work in hand (karaniya), the
work accomplished (siddham), part of a work in hand (sésha),
receipts, expenditure, and net balance.

The business of upkeeping the government (samsthdnam),
the routine work (prachdrah), the collection of necessaries of life,
the collection and audit of all kinds of revenue,—these constitute
the work in hand.

That which has been credited to the treasury; that which has
been taken by the king; that which has been spent in connection

79
Kautilya's Arthashastra

with the capital city not entered (into the register) or continued
from year before last, the royal command dictated or orally
intimated to be entered (into the register),—all these constitute the
work accomplished.

Preparation of plans for profitable works, balance of fines
due, demand for arrears of revenue kept in abeyance, and
examination of accounts,—these constitute what is called part of a
work in hand which may be of little or no value.

Receipts may be (1) current, (2) last balance, and (3)
accidental (anyajdtah= received from external source).

What is received day after day is termed current (vartamdna).

Whatever has been brought forward from year before last,
whatever is in the hands of others, and whatever has changed hands
is termed last balance (puryushita).

Whatever has been lost and forgotten (by others), fines levied
from government servants, marginal revenue (pdrsva),
compensation levied for any damage (pdrihinikam), presentations
to the king, the property of those who have fallen victims to
epidemics (damaragatakasvam) leaving no sons, and
treasure-troves,---all these constitute accidental receipts.

Investment of capital (vikshépa), the relics of a wrecked
undertaking, and the savings from an estimated outlay are the
means to check expenditure (vyayapratyayah).

The rise in price of merchandise due to the use of different
weights and measures in selling is termed vydji; the enhancement
of price due to bidding among buyers is also another source of
profit.

80
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Expenditure is of two kinds—daily expenditure and
profitable expenditure.

What is continued every day is daily.

Whatever is earned once in a paksha, a month, or a year is
termed profit.

Whatever is spent on these two heads is termed as daily
expenditure and profitable expenditure respectively.

That which remains after deducting all the expenditure
already incurred and excluding all revenue to be realised is net
balance (n#vi) which may have been either just realised or brought
forward.

Thus a wise collector-general shall conduct the work of
revenue-collection, increasing the income and decreasing the
expenditure.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, “The Business of Collection of Revenue by
the Collector-General” in Book II, “The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
twenty-seventh chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER VII. THE BUSINESS OF KEEPING UP
ACCOUNTS IN THE OFFICE OF ACCOUNTANTS.

THE superintendent of accounts shall have the accountant's
office constructed with its door facing either the north or the east,
with seats (for clerks) kept apart and with shelves of account-books

81
Kautilya's Arthashastra

well arranged.

Therein the number of several departments; the description of
the work carried on and of the results realised in several
manufactories (Karmdnta); the amount of profit, loss, expenditure,
delayed earnings, the amount of vydji (premia in kind or cash)
realised, —the status of government agency employed, the amount
of wages paid, the number of free labourers engaged (vishti)
pertaining to the investment of capital on any work; likewise in the
case of gems and commodities of superior or inferior value, the rate
of their price, the rate of their barter, the counterweights
(pratimdna) used in weighing them, their number, their weight,
and their cubical measure; the history of customs, professions, and
transactions of countries, villages, families, and corporations; the
gains in the form of gifts to the king's courtiers, their title to possess
and enjoy lands, remission of taxes allowed to them, and payment
of provisions and salaries to them; the gains to the wives and sons
of the king in gems, lands, prerogatives, and provisions made to
remedy evil portents; the treaties with, issues of ultimatum to, and
payments of tribute from or to, friendly or inimical kings,— all
these shall be regularly entered in prescribed registers.

From these books the superintendent shall furnish the
accounts as to the forms of work in hand, of works accomplished,
of part of works in hand, of receipts, of expenditure, of net balance,
and of tasks to be undertaken in each of the several departments.

To supervise works of high, middling and low description,
superintendents with corresponding qualifications shall be

employed.

The king will have to suffer in the end if he curtails the fixed
amount of expenditure on profitable works.

82
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(When a man engaged by Government for any work absents
himself), his sureties who conjointly received (wages?) from the
government, or his sons, brothers, wives, daughters or servants
living upon his work shall bear the loss caused to the Government.

The work of 354 days and nights is a year. Such a work shall
be paid for more or less in proportion to its quantity at the end of
the month, Ashddha (about the middle of July). (The work during)
the intercalary month shall be (separately) calculated.

A government officer, not caring to know the information
gathered by espionage and neglecting to supervise the despatch of
work in his own department as regulated, may occasion loss of
revenue to the government owing to his ignorance, or owing to his
idleness when he is too weak to endure the trouble of activity, or
due to inadvertence in perceiving sound and other objects of sense,
or by being timid when he is afraid of clamour, unrighteousness,
and untoward results, or owing to selfish desire when he is
favourably disposed towards those who are desirous to achieve
their own selfish ends, or by cruelty due to anger, or by lack of
dignity when he is surrounded by a host of learned and needy
sycophants, or by making use of false balance, false measures, and
false calculation owing to greediness.

The school of Manu hold that a fine equal to the loss of
revenue and multiplied by the serial number of the circumstances

of the guilt just narrated in order shall be imposed upon him.

The school of Pardsara hold that the fine in all the cases shall
be eight times the amount lost.

The school of Brihaspathi say that it shall
be ten times the amount.

83
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The school of Usanas say that it shall be
twenty times the amount.

But Kautilya says that it shall be proportional to the guilt.
Accounts shall be submitted in the month of Ashddha.

When they (the accountants of different districts) present
themselves with sealed books, commodities and net revenue, they
shall all be kept apart in one place so that they cannot carry on
conversation with each other. Having heard from them the totals of
receipts, expenditure, and net revenue, the net amount shall be
received.

By how much the superintendent of a department augments
the net total of its revenue either by increasing any one of the items
of its receipts or by decreasing anyone of the items of expenditure,
he shall be rewarded eight times that amount. But when it is
reversed (i.e., when the net total is decreased), the award shall also
be reversed (i.e., he shall be made to pay eight times the decrease).

Those accountants who do not present themselves in time or
do not produce their account books along with the net revenue shall
be fined ten times the amount due from them.

When a superintendent of accounts (kdranika) does not at
once proceed to receive and check the accounts when the clerks
(kdrmika) are ready, he shall be punished with the first
amercement. In the reverse case (i.e., when the clerks are not
ready), the clerks shall be punished with double the first
amercement.

All the ministers (mahdmdras) shall together narrate the
whole of the actual accounts pertaining to each department.

84
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever of these (ministers or clerks ?) is of undivided
counsel or keeps himself aloof, or utters falsehood shall be
punished with the highest amercement.

When an accountant has not prepared the table of daily
accounts (akritdhordpaharam), he may be given a month more (for
its preparation). After the lapse of one month he shall be fined at
the rate of 200 panas for each month (during which he delays the
accounts).

If an accountant has to write only a small portion of the
accounts pertaining to net revenue, he may be allowed five nights
to prepare it.

Then the table of daily accounts submitted by him along with
the net revenue shall be checked with reference to the regulated
forms of righteous transactions and precedents and by applying
such arithmetical processes as addition, subtraction, inference and
by espionage. It shall also be verified with reference to (such
divisions of time as) days, five nights, pakshds, months,
four-months, and the year.

The receipt shall be verified with reference to the place and
time pertaining to them, the form of their collection (i.e., capital,
share), the amount of the present and past produce, the person who
has paid it, the person who caused its payment, the officer who
fixed the amount payable, and the officer who received it. The
expenditure shall be verified with reference to the cause of the
profit from any source in the place and time pertaining to each
item, the amount payable, the amount paid, the person who ordered
the collection, the person who remitted the same, the person who
delivered it, and the person who finally received it.

Likewise the net revenue shall be verified with reference to

85
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the place, time, and source pertaining to it, its standard of fineness
and quantity, and the persons who are employed to guard the
deposits and magazines (of grains, etc.).

When an officer (kdranika) does not facilitate or prevents the
execution of the king's order, or renders the receipts and
expenditure otherwise than prescribed, he shall be punished with
the first amercement.

Any clerk who violates or deviates from the prescribed form
of writing accounts, enters what is unknown to him, or makes
double or treble entries (punaruktam) shall be fined 12 panas.

He who scrapes off the net total shall be doubly punished.
He who eats it up shall be fined eight times.

He who causes loss of revenue shall not only pay a fine equal
to five times the amount lost (panchabandha), but also make good
the loss. In case of uttering a lie, the punishment levied for theft
shall be imposed. (When an entry lost or omitted) is made later or is
made to appear as forgotten, but added later on recollection, the
punishment shall be double the above.

The king shall forgive an offence when it is trifling, have
satisfaction even when the revenue is scanty, and honour with
rewards (pragraha) such of his superintendents as are of immense
benefit to him.

[Thus ends Chapter VII, "The Business of Keeping up the
Accounts in the Officeof Accountants,” in Book II, "The Duties of
Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End
of twenty-eighth chapter from the beginning.]

86
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER VIII. DETECTION OF WHAT IS EMBEZZLED
BY GOVERNMENT SERVANTS OUT OF STATE
REVENUE.

ALL undertakings depend upon finance. Hence foremost
attention shall be paid to the treasury.

Public prosperity (prachdrasamriddhil), rewards for good
conduct (charitrdnugrahah), capture of thieves, dispensing with
(the service of too many) government servants, abundance of
harvest, prosperity of commerce, absence of troubles and
calamities (upasargapramokshah), diminution of remission of
taxes, and income in gold (hiranyopdyanam) are all conducive to
financial prosperity.

Obstruction  (pratibandha), loan (praydga), trading
(vyavahdra), fabrication of accounts (avastdra), causing the loss of
revenue (parihdpana), self-enjoyment (upabhdga), barter
(parivartana), and defalcation (apahdra) are the causes that tend to
deplete the treasury.

Failure to start an undertaking or to realise its results, or to
credit its profits (to the treasury) is known as obstruction. Herein a
fine of ten times the amount in question shall be imposed.

Lending the money of the treasury on
periodical interest is a loan.

Carrying on trade by making use of
government money is trading.

These two acts shall be punished with a fine of twice the
profit earned.

87
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever makes as unripe the ripe time or as ripe the unripe
time (of revenue collection) is guilty of fabrication. Herein a fine of
ten times the amount (panchabandha) shall be imposed.

Whoever lessens a fixed amount of income or enhances the
expenditure is guilty of causing the loss of revenue. Herein a fine
of four times the loss shall be imposed.

Whoever enjoys himself or causes others to enjoy whatever
belongs to the king is guilty of self-enjoyment. Herein
death-sentence shall be passed for enjoying gems, middlemost
amercement for enjoying valuable articles, and restoration of the
articles together with a fine equal to their value shall be the
punishment for enjoying articles of inferior value.

The act of exchanging government articles for (similar)
articles of others is barter. This offence is explained by
self-enjoyment.

Whoever does not take into the treasury the fixed amount of
revenue collected, or does not spend what is ordered to be spent, or
misrepresents the net revenue collected is guilty of defalcation of
government money. Herein a fine of twelve times the amount shall
be imposed.

There are about forty ways of embezzlement: what is realised
earlier is entered later on; what is realised later is entered earlier;
what ought to be realised is not realised; what is hard to realise is
shown as realised; what is collected is shown as not collected; what
has not been collected is shown as collected; what is collected in
part is entered as collected in full; what is collected in full is
entered as collected in part; what is collected is of one sort, while
what is entered is of another sort; what is realised from one source
is shown as realised from another; what is payable is not paid; what

88
Kautilya's Arthashastra

is not payable is paid; not paid in time; paid untimely; small gifts
made large gifts; large gifts made small gifts; what is gifted is of
one sort while what is entered is of another; the real donee is one
while the person entered (in the register) as donee is another; what
has been taken into (the treasury) is removed while what has not
been credited to it is shown as credited; raw materials that are not
paid for are entered, while those that are paid for are not entered; an
aggregate is scattered in pieces; scattered items are converted into
an aggregate; commodities of greater value are bartered for those
of small value; what is of smaller value is bartered for one of
greater value; price of commodities enhanced; price of
commodities lowered; number of nights increased; number of
nights decreased; the year not in harmony with its months; the
month not in harmony with its days; inconsistency in the
transactions carried on with personal supervision
(samdgamavishdnah); misrepresentation of the source of income;
inconsistency in giving charities; incongruity in representing the
work turned out; inconsistency in dealing with fixed items;
misrepresentation of test marks or the standard of fineness (of gold
and silver); misrepresentation of prices of commodities; making
use of false weight and measures; deception in counting articles;
and making use of false cubic measures such as bhdjan— these are
the several ways of embezzlement.

Under the above circumstances, the persons concerned such
as the treasurer (nidhdyaka), the prescriber (nibandhaka), the
receiver (pratigrdhaka), the payer (ddyaka), the person who
caused the payment (ddpaka), the ministerial servants of the officer
(mantri-vaiydvrityakara) shall each be separately examined. If any
one of these tells a lie, he shall receive the same punishment as the
chief-officer, (yukta) who committed the offence.

A proclamation in public (prachdra) shall be made to the
effect "whoever has suffered at the hands of this offender may

89
Kautilya's Arthashastra

make their grievances known to the king."

Those who respond to the call shall receive such
compensation as is equal to the loss they have sustained.

When there are a number of offences in which a single
officer is involved, and when his being guilty of pardkta in any one
of those charges has been established, he shall be answerable for all
those offences. Otherwise (i.e., when it is not established), he shall
be tried for each of the charges.

When a government servant has been proved to be guilty of
having misappropriated part of a large sum in question, he shall be
answerable for the whole.

Any informant (sichaka) who supplies information about
embezzlement just under perpetration shall, if he succeeds in
proving it, get as reward one-sixth of the amount in question; if he
happens to be a government servant (bhritaka), he shall get for the
same act one-twelfth of the amount.

If an informant succeeds in proving only a part of a big
embezzlement, he shall, nevertheless, get the prescribed share of
the part of the embezzled amount proved.

An informant who fails to prove (his assertion) shall be liable
to monetary or corporal punishment, and shall never be acquitted.

When the charge is proved, the informant may impute the
tale-bearing to someone else or clear himself in any other way from
the blame. Any informant who withdraws his assertion prevailed
upon by the insinuations of the accused shall be condemned to
death.

[Thus ends Chapter VIII, "Detection of what is Embezzled by
90
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Government Servants out of State Revenue,” in Book II, " The
Duties of Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of twenty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IX. EXAMINATION OF THE CONDUCT OF
GOVERNMENT SERVANTS.

THOSE who are possessed of ministerial qualifications shall,
in accordance with their individual capacity, be appointed as
superintendents of government departments. While engaged in
work, they shall be daily examined; for men are naturally
fickle-minded and like horses at work exhibit constant change in
their temper. Hence the agency and tools which they make use of,
the place and time of the work they are engaged in, as well as the
precise form of the work, the outlay, and the results shall always be
ascertained.

Without dissension and without any concert among
themselves, they shall carry on their work as ordered.

When in concert, they eat up (the revenue).
When in disunion, they mar the work.

Without bringing to the knowledge of their master (bhartri,
the king), they shall undertake nothing except remedial measures
against imminent dangers.

A fine of twice the amount of their daily pay and of the
expenditure (incurred by them) shall be fixed for any inadvertence
on their part.

91
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever of the superintendents makes as much as, or more
than, the amount of fixed revenue shall be honoured with
promotion and rewards.

(My) teacher holds that that officer who spends too much and
brings in little revenue eats it up; while he who proves the revenue
(i.e., brings in more than he spends) as well as the officer who
brings inasmuch as he spends does not eat up the revenue.

But Kautilya holds that cases of embezzlement or no
embezzlement can be ascertained through spies alone.

Whoever lessens the revenue eats the king's wealth. If owing
to inadvertence he causes diminution in revenue, he shall be
compelled to make good the loss.

Whoever doubles the revenue eats into the vitality of the
country. If he brings in double the amount to the king, he shall, if
the offence is small, be warned not to repeat the same; but if the
offence be grave he should proportionally be punished.

Whoever spends the revenue (without bringing in any profit)
eats up the labour of workmen. Such an officer shall be punished in
proportion to the value of the work done, the number of days taken,
the amount of capital spent, and the amount of daily wages paid.

Hence the chief officer of each department (adhikarana) shall
thoroughly scrutinise the real amount of the work done, the
receipts realised from, and the expenditure incurred in that
departmental work both in detail and in the aggregate.

He shall also check (pratishedhayet) prodigal, spend-thrift
and niggardly persons.

Whoever unjustly eats up the property left by his father and
92
Kautilya's Arthashastra

grandfather is a prodigal person (milahara).
Whoever eats all that he earns is a spendthrift (tdddtvika).

Whoever hordes money, entailing hardship both on himself
and his servants is niggardly.

Whoever of these three kinds of persons has the support of a
strong party shall not be disturbed; but he who has no such support
shall be caught hold of (parydddtavyah).

Whoever is niggardly in spite of his immense property,
hordes, deposits, or sends out—hordes in his own house, deposits
with citizens or country people or sends out to foreign
countries;—a spy shall find out the advisers, friends, servants,
relations, partisans, as well as the income and expenditure of such a
niggardly person. Whoever in a foreign country carries out the
work of such a niggardly person shall be prevailed upon to give out
the secret. When the secret is known, the niggardly person shall be
murdered apparently under the orders of (his) avowed enemy.

Hence the superintendents of all the departments shall carry
on their respective works in company with accountants, writers,
coin-examiners, the treasurers, and military officers
(uttarddhyaksha).

Those who attend upon military officers and are noted for
their honesty and good conduct shall be spies to watch the conduct
of accountants and other clerks.

Each department shall be officered by several temporary
heads.

Just as it is impossible not to taste the honey or the poison that
finds itself at the tip of the tongue, so it is impossible for a

93
Kautilya's Arthashastra

government servant not to eat up, at least, a bit of the king's
revenue. Just as fish moving under water cannot possibly be found
out either as drinking or not drinking water, so government
servants employed in the government work cannot be found out
(while) taking money (for themselves).

It is possible to mark the movements of birds flying high up in
the sky; but not so is it possible to ascertain the movement of
government servants of hidden purpose.

Government servants shall not only be confiscated of their
ill-earned hordes, but also be transferred from one work to another,
so that they cannot either misappropriate Government money or
vomit what they have eaten up.

Those who increase the king's revenue instead of eating it up
and are loyally devoted to him shall be made permanent in service.

[Thus ends Chapter IX, "Examination of the Conduct of
Government Servants” in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of thirtieth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER X. THE PROCEDURE OF FORMING ROYAL
WRITS.

(TEACHERS) say that (the word) sdsana, command, (is
applicable only to) royal writs (sdsana).

Writs are of great importance to kings inasmuch as treaties
and ultimate leading to war depend upon writs.

94
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Hence one who is possessed of ministerial qualifications,
acquainted with all kinds of customs, smart in composition, good
in legible writing, and sharp in reading shall be appointed as a
writer (lékhaka).

Such a writer, having attentively listened to the king's order
and having well thought out the matter under consideration, shall
reduce the order to writing.

As to a writ addressed to a lord (isvara), it shall contain a
polite mention of his country, his possessions, his family and his
name, and as to that addressed to a common man (anisvara), it
shall make a polite mention of his country and name.

Having paid sufficient attention to the caste, family, social
rank, age, learning (sruta), occupation, property, character (sila),
blood-relationship (yaundnubandha) of the addressee, as well as to
the place and time (of writing), the writer shall form a writ befitting
the position of the person addressed.

Arrangement of subject-matter (arthakrama), relevancy
(sambandha), completeness, sweetness, dignity, and lucidity are
the necessary qualities of a writ.

The act of mentioning facts in the order of their importance is

arrangement.

When subsequent facts are not contradictory to facts just or
previously mentioned, and so on till the completion of the letter, it
is termed relevancy.

Avoidance of redundancy or deficiency in words or letters;
impressive description of subject matter by citing reasons,

95
Kautilya's Arthashastra

examples, and illustrations; and the use of appropriate and suitably
strong words (asrdntapada) is completeness.

The description in exquisite style of a good purport with a

pleasing effect is sweetness.

The use of words other than colloquial (agrdmya) is dignity.
The use of well-known words is lucidity.
The alphabetical letters beginning with Akdra are sixty-three.

The combination of letters is a word (pada). The word is of

four kinds—nouns, verbs, prefixes of verbs, and particles (nipdta).

A noun is that which signifies an essence (sarva).
A verb is that which has no definite gender and signifies an
action.
'Pra’ and other words are the prefixes of verbs.
'Cha’ and other indeclinable words are particles.
A group of words conveying a complete sense is a sentence
(vdkya).
Combination of words (varga) consisting of not more than

three words and not less than one word shall be so formed as to
harmonise with the meaning of immediately following words.

96
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The word, “if,” is used to indicate the completion of a writ;
and also to indicate an oral message as in the phrase
‘vachikamasyeti,” an oral message along with this (writ).

Calumniation (nindd), commendation, inquiry, narration
request, refusal, censure, prohibition, command, conciliation,
promise of help, threat, and persuasion are the thirteen purposes for
which writs are issued.

Calumniation (nindd) consists in speaking ill of one's family,
body and acts.
Commendation (prasamsd) consists in praising one's family,
person, and acts.

To inquire "how is this?" is inquiry.

To point out the way as 'thus,’ is narration (dkhydna).

To entreat as 'give,’ is request.

To say that 'T do not give,’ is refusal.

To say that 'it is not worthy of thee,’ is censure (updlambhah).

To say as 'do not do so,’ is prohibition (pratishedha).

To say that 'this should be done,’ is command (chédand).

To say 'what I am, thou art that;
whichever article is mine is thine also, is
conciliation (sdntvam). To hold out help

in trouble is promise of help

97
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(abhyavapattih). Pointing out the evil

consequences that may occur in future is

threat (abhibartsanam). Persuasion is of

three kinds: that made for the purpose of

money, that made in case of one's failure

to fulfill a promise, and that made on

occasion of any trouble. Also writs of

information, of command, and of gift;

likewise writs of remission, of licence, of

guidance, of reply, and of general

proclamation are other varieties.

Thus says (the messenger); so says (the king); if there is any

truth in this (statement of the messenger), then the thing (agreed to)
should at once be surrendered; (the messenger) has informed the

king of all the deeds of the enemy. (Parakdra);—this is the writ of
information which is held to be of various forms.

Wherever and especially regarding Government servants the
king's order either for punishment or for rewards is issued, it is
called writ of command (djndlékha).

Where the bestowal of honour for deserving merit is
contemplated either as help to alleviate affliction (ddhi) or as gift
(pariddna), there are issued writs of gift (upagrahalekha).

Whatever favour (anugraha) to special castes, cities, villages,
or countries of various description is announced in obedience to the

98
Kautilya's Arthashastra

king's order, it is called writ of remission (parihdralékha) by those
who know it.

Likewise licence or permission (nisrishti) shall be enjoined
either in word or deed; accordingly it is styled verbal order or writ
of licence.

Various kinds of providential visitations or well ascertained
evils of human make are believed to be the cause for issuing writs
of guidance (pravrittilékha) to attempt remedies against them.

When having read a letter and discussed as to the form of
reply thereto, a reply in accordance with the king's order is made, it
is called a writ of reply (pratilékha).

When the king directs his viceroys (isvara) and other officers
to protect and give material help to travellers either on roads or in
the interior of the country, it is termed writ of general proclamation
(sarvatraga lekha)

Negotiation, bribery, causing dissension, and open attack are
forms of stratagem (updya).

Negotiation is of five kinds:—

Praising the qualities (of an enemy), narrating the mutual
relationship, pointing out mutual benefit, showing vast future
prospects, and identity of interests.

When the family, person, occupation, conduct, learning,
properties, etc. (of an enemy) are commended with due attention to
their worth, it is termed praising the qualities (gunasankirthana).

When the fact of having agnates, blood-relations, teachers
(maukha), priestly heirarchy (srauva), family, and friends in

99
Kautilya's Arthashastra

common is pointed out, it is known as narration of mutual
relationship (sambandhdpakhydnay).

When both parties, the party of a king and that of his enemy
are shown to be helpful to each other, it is known as pointing out
mutual benefit (parasparépakdrasamdarsanam).

Inducement such as 'this being done thus, such result will
accrue to both of us,’ is showing vast future prospects
(Aydtipradarsanam).

To say 'what I am, that thou art; thou mayest utilize in thy
works whatever is mine,’ is identity of interests
(dtmépanidhdnam).

Offering money is bribery (upapraddna).

Causing fears and suspicion as well as threatening is known
as sowing dissension.

Killing, harassing, and plundering is attack (danda).
Clumsiness, contradiction, repetition, bad grammar, and
misarrangement are the faults of a writ.

Black and ugly leaf, (kdlapatrakamachdru) and uneven and
uncoloured (virdga) writing cause clumsiness (akdnti).

Subsequent portion disagreeing with previous portion of a
letter, causes contradiction (vydghdta).

Stating for a second time what has already been said above is
repetition.

Wrong use of words in gender, number, time and case is bad

100
Kautilya's Arthashastra

grammar (apasabda).

Division of paragraphs (varga) in unsuitable places, omission
of necessary division of paragraphs, and violation of any other
necessary qualities of a writ constitute misarrangement
(samplava).

Having followed all sciences and having fully observed forms
of writing in vogue, these rules of writing royal writs have been
laid down by Kautilya in the interest of kings.

[Thus ends Chapter X, "The Procedure of Forming Royal Writs,"
in Book II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilva. End of thirty-first chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XI. EXAMINATION OF GEMS THAT ARE TO
BE ENTERED INTO THE TREASURY.

THE Superintendent of the treasury shall, in the presence of
qualified persons, admit into the treasury whatever he ought to,
gems (ratna) and articles of superior or inferior value.

Tdmraparnika, that which is produced in the tdmraparni;
Pdndyakavdtaka, that which is obtained in Pdndyakavata; Pdsikya,
that which is produced in the Pdsa; Kauleya, that which is
produced in the kiila; Chaurneya, that which is produced in the
Chiirna; Mahéndra, that which is obtained near the mountain of
Mahéndra; Kdrdamika, that which is produced in the Kdrdama;
Srautastya, that which is produced in the Srdtasi; Hrddiya, that
which is produced in (a deep pool of water known as) Hrada; and

101
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Haimavata, that which is obtained in the vicinity of the Himalayas
are the several varieties of pearls.

Oyster-shells, conch-shells, and other miscellaneous things
are the wombs of pearls.

That which is like masiira (ervum hirsutam), that which
consists of three joints (triputaka), that which is like a tortoise
(kiirmaka), that which is semi-circular, that which consists of
several coatings, that which is double (ydmaka), that which is
scratched, that which is of rough surface, that which is possessed of
spots (siktakam), that which is like the water-pot used by an
ascetic, that which is of dark-brown or blue colour, and that which
is badly perforated are inauspicious.

That which is big, circular, without bottom (nistalam),
brilliant, white, heavy, soft to the touch, and properly perforated is

the best.

Sirshaka, upasirshaka, prakdndaka, avaghdtaka, and

taralapratibandha are several varieties of pearl necklaces.

One thousand and eight strings of pearls form the necklace,

Indrachchhanda.
Half of the above is Vijayachchhanda.
Sixty-four strings make up Ardhahdra.

Fifty-four strings make up Rasmikaldpa.
102
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Thirty-two strings make up Guchchha.
Twenty-seven strings make up Nakshatramdla.
Twenty-four strings make up Ardhaguchchha.
Twenty strings make up Mdnavaka.

Half of the above is Ardhamdnavaka.

The same necklaces with a gem at the centre are called by the
same names with the words 'Mdnavaka' suffixed to their respective

names.

When all the strings making up a necklace are of sirshaka
pattern, it is called pure necklace (suddhahdra); likewise with
strings of other pattern. That which contains a gem in the centre is
(also) called Ardhamdnavaka.

That which contains three slab-like gems (triphalaka) or five
slab-like gems (panchaphalaka) in the centre is termed

Phalakahdra.

An only string of pearls is called pure Ekdvali; the same with a
gem in the centre is called Yashti; the same variegated with gold

globules is termed Ratndvali.

A string made of pearls and gold globules alternately put is

called Apavartaka.

103
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Strings of pearls with a gold wire between two strings is

called Sopdnaka.
The same with a gem in the centre is called Manisépdnaka.

The above will explain the formation of head-strings,
bracelets, anklets, waist-bands, and other varieties.

Kauta, that which is obtained in the Kita; Mauleyaka, that
which is found in the Miileya; and Pdrasamudraka, that which is
found beyond the ocean are several varieties of gems.

That which possesses such pleasant colour as that of the red
lotus flower, or that of the flower of Pdrijdta (Erithrina Indica), or
that of the rising sun is the Saugandhika gem.

That which is of the colour of blue lotus flower, or of sirisha
(Acacia Sirisa), or of water, or of fresh bamboo, or of the colour of
the feathers of a parrot is the Vaidirya gem Pushyardga,
Gomuitraka, and Gémédika are other varieties of the same.

That which is characterised with blue lines, that which is of
the colour of the flower of Kaldya (a kind of phraseolus), or which
is intensely blue, which possesses the colour of Jambu fruit (rose
apple), or which is as blue as the clouds is the Indranila gem;
Nandaka (pleasing gem), Sravanmadhya (that which appears to
pour water from its centre), Sitavrishti (that which appears to pour
cold shower), and Stryakdnta (sunstone) are other forms of gems.

Gems are hexagonal, quadrangular, or circular possessed of
dazzling glow, pure, smooth, heavy, brilliant, transparent
(antargataprabha) and illuminating; such are the qualities of gems.

Faint colour, sandy layer, spots, holes, bad perforation, and

104
Kautilya's Arthashastra

scratches are the defects of gems.

Vimalaka (pure), sasyaka (plant-like), Anjanamiilaka
(deep-dark), Pirtaka (like the bile of a cow) Sulabhaka (easily
procurable), Lohitaka (red), Amritdmsuka (of white rays),
Jyétirasaka (glowing), Maileyaka, Ahichchhatraka , (procured in
the country of Ahichchhatra), Kirpa, Pitikidrpa, and
Sugandhikiirpa, Kshirapaka, Suktichiirnaka (like the powder of an
oystershell), Sildpravdlaka (like coral), Pulaka, Stkrapulaka are
varieties of inferior gems.

The rest are metalic beads (kdchamani).

Sabhdrdshtraka, that which is found in the country of
Sabhdrdshtra; Madhyamardshtraka, that which is found in the
Central Province; Kdsmaka, that which is found in the country of
Kdsmaka; Srikatanaka, that which is found in the vicinity of the
mountain, Veddtkata;,; Manimantaka, that which is found near the
mountain Maniman or Manimanta, and Indravdnakd are
diamonds.

Mines, streams, and other miscellaneous places are their
sources.

The colour of a diamond may be like that of a cat's eye, that of
the flower of Sirisha (Acacia Sirisa), the urine of a cow, the bile of
a cow, like alum (sphatika), the flower of Mdlati, or like that of any
of the gems (described above).

That which is big, heavy, hard (prahdrasaham, tolerant of
hitting), regular (samakona), capable of scratching on the surface
of vessels (bhdjanalékhi), refractive of light (kubrdmi), and
brilliant is the best.

That which is devoid of angles, uneven (nirasrikam), and

105
Kautilya's Arthashastra

bent on one side (pdrsvdpavrittam) is inauspicious.

Alakandaka, and Vaivarnaka are the two varieties of coral
which is possessed of ruby-like colour, which is very hard, and
which is free from the contamination of other substances inside.

Sdtana is red and smells like the earth; Gdsirshaka is dark red
and smells like fish; Harichandana is of the colour of the feathers
of a parrot and smells like tamarind or mango fruit; likewise
Tdrnasa; Grdameruka is red or dark red and smells like the urine of
a goat; Daivasabheya is red and smells like a lotus flower; likewise
Aupaka (Jdpaka);, Jongaka and Taurupa are red or dark red and
soft; Maleyaka is reddish white; Kuchandana is as black as Agaru
(resin of the aloe) or red or dark red and very rough;
Kdla-parvataka is of pleasant appearance; Kosdkaraparvataka
(that which is the product of that mountain which is of the shape of
a bud) is black or variegated black; Sitédakiya is black and soft,
and smells like a lotus-flower; Ndgaparvataka (that which is the
product of Naga mountain) is rough and is possessed of the colour
of Saivala (Vallisneria); and Sdkala is brown.

Light, soft, moist (asydna, not dry), as greasy as ghee, of
pleasant smell, adhesive to the skin, of mild smell, retentive of
colour and smell, tolerant of heat, absorptive of heat, and
comfortable to the skin--these are the characteristics of sandal
(chandana).

(As to) Agaru (Agallochum, resin of aloe):—
Jongaka is black or variegated black and is possessed of
variegated spots; Dongaka is black; and Pdrasamudraka is of

variegated colour and smells like cascus or like Navamdlika
(jasminum).

106
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Agaru is) heavy, soft, greasy, smells far and long, burns
slowly, gives out continuous smoke while burning, is of uniform
smell, absorbs heat, and is so adhesive to the skin as not to be
removable by rubbing;—these are the characteristics of Agaru.

(As to) Tailaparnika:—

Asokagrdmika, the product of Asdkagrdma, is of the colour of
meat and smells like a lotus flower; Jongaka is reddish yellow and
smells like a blue lotus flower or like the urine of a cow;
Grameruka is greasy and smells like a cow's urine;
Sauvarnakudyaka, product of the country of Suvarnakudya, is
reddish yellow and smells like Mdrulunga (the fruit of citron tree or
sweet lime); Piirnadvipaka, the product of the island, Pirnadviipa,
smells like a lotus flower or like butter; Bhadrasriya and
Pdralauhityaka are of the colour of nutmeg; Antarvatya is of the
colour of cascus,---the last two smell like Kushtha (Costus
Speciosus); Kaleyaka which is a product of Svarna-bhimi,
gold-producing land, is yellow and greasy; and Auttaraparvataka
(a product of, the north mountain) is reddish yellow.

The above (fragrant substances) are commodities of superior
value (Sdra).

The smell of the Tailaparnika substances is lasting, no matter
whether they are made into a paste or boiled or burnt; also it is
neither changed nor affected even when mixed with other
substances; and these substances resemble sandal and Agallochum
in their qualities.

Kdntandvaka, Praiyaka, and Auttara-parvataka are the
varieties of skins.

Kdntandvaka is of the colour of the neck of the peacock;
Praiyaka is variegated with blue, yellow, and white spots; these

107
Kautilya's Arthashastra

two are eight angulas (inches) long.

Also Bisi and Mahdbisi are the products of Dvddasagrdma,
twelve villages.

That which is of indistinct colour, hairy, and variegated (with
spots) is (called) Bist.

That which is rough and almost white is Mahdbisi (great
Bist); These two are twelve angulas long.

Sydamika, Kdlika, Kadali, Chandrottara, and Sdkuld are
(other kinds of skins) procured from Aroha (Arohaja).

Sydmika is brown and contains variegated spots; Kdlika is
brown or of the colour of a pigeon; these two are eight angulas
long. Kadali is rough and two feet long; when Kadali bears
variegated moonlike spots, it is called Chandrottarakadali and is
one-third of its length; Sdkuld is variegated with large round spots
similar to those that manifest themselves in a kind of leprosy
(kushtha), or is furnished with tendrils and spotted like a deer's
skin.

Sdmiira, Chinasi, and Sdmuili are (skins procured from
Bdhlava, (Bahlaveya).

Sdnuira is thirty-six angulas long and black; Chinasi is
reddish black or blackish white; Sdmuili is of the colour of wheat.

Sdtina, Nalatila, and Vrittapuchchha are the skins of aquatic
animals (Audra).

Sdtina is black; Nalatiila is of the colour of the fibre of Nala, a
kind of grass; and Vrittapuchchha (that which possesses a round
tail) is brown.

108
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The above are the varieties of skins.
Of skins, that which is soft, smooth and hairy is the best.

Blankets made of sheep's wool may be white, purely red, or as
red as a lotus flower. They may be made of worsted threads by
sewing (khachita); or may be woven of woollen threads of various
colour (vdnachitra); or may be made of different pieces
(khandasanghdtya); or may be woven of uniform woollen threads
(tantuvichchhinna).

Woollen blankets are (of ten kinds):—Kambala,
Kauchapaka, Kulamitika, Saumitika, Turagastarana, Varnaka,
Talichchhaka, Vdravdna, Paristoma, and Samantabhadraka.

Of these, that which is slippery (pichchhila) as a wet surface,
possessed of fine hair, and soft, is the best.

That (blanket) which is made up of eight pieces and black in
colour is called Bhingisi used as rain-proof ; likewise is Apasdraka;
both are the products of Nepal.

Samputika, Chaturasrika, Lambara, Katavdnaka,
Pravdraka, and Sattalika are (blankets made of) the wool of wild
animals.

That which is manufactured in the country, Vanga (vangaka)
is a white and soft fabric (dukiila); that of Pdndya manufacture
(Paundraka) is black and as soft as the surface of a gem; and that
which is the product of the country, Suvarnakudya, is as red as the
sun, as soft as the surface of the gem, woven while the threads are
very wet, and of uniform (chaturasra) or mixed texture
(vydmisravdna).

109
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Single, half, double, treble and quadruple garments are
varieties of the same.

The above will explain other kinds of fabrics such as Kdsika,
Benarese products, and Kshauma which is manufactured in
Pdndya (Paundraka).

Mdgadhika (product of the Magadha country), Paundraka,
and Sauvarnakudyaka are fibrous garments.

Ndgavriksha (a species of a tree), Likucha (Artocarpus
Lakucha), and Vakula (Mimusops Elengi), and Vata (Ficus Indica)
are the sources (of their fibres).

That of Ndgavriksha is yellow (pita); that of Likucha is of the
colour of wheat; that of Vakula is white; and the rest is of the
colour of butter.

Of these, that which is produced in the country of
Suvarnakudya is the best.

The above will explain the fabrics known as kauseya,
silk-cloth, and chinapatta, fabrics of China manufacture.

Of cotton fabrics, those of Madhura, of Apardnta, western
parts, of Kdlinga, of Kdsi, of Vanga, of Vatsa, and of Mahisha are
the best.

As to other kinds of gems (which are not treated of here), the
superintendent shall ascertain their size, their value, species, form,
utility, their treatment, the repair of old ones, any adulteration that
is not easily detected, their wear and tear due to lapse of time and
place, as well as remedies against those which are inauspicious
(himsra).

110
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter XI, "Examination of Gems that are to be
entered into the Treasury,” in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
thirty-second chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XII. CONDUCTING MINING OPERATIONS
AND MANUFACTURE.

POSSESSED of the knowledge of the science dealing with
copper and other minerals (Sulbddhdtusdstra), experienced in the
art of distillation and condensation of mercury (rasapdka) and of
testing gems, aided by experts in mineralogy and equipped with
mining labourers and necessary instruments, the superintendent of
mines shall examine mines which, on account of their containing
mineral excrement (kitza), crucibles, charcoal, and ashes, may
appear to have been once exploited or which may be newly
discovered on plains or mountain-slopes possessing mineral ores,
the richness of which can be ascertained by weight, depth of
colour, piercing smell, and taste.

Liquids which ooze out from pits, eaves, slopes, or deep
excavations of well-known mountains; which have the colour of
the fruit of rose-apple (jambu), of mango, and of fanpalm; which
are as yellow as ripe turmeric, sulphurate of arsenic (haritdla),
honeycomb, and vermilion; which are as resplendent as the petals
of a lotus, or the feathers of a parrot or a peacock; which are
adjacent to (any mass of) water or shrubs of similar colour; and
which are greasy (chikkana), transparent (visada), and very heavy
are ores of gold (kdnchanika). Likewise liquids which, when
dropped on water, spread like oil to which dirt and filth adhere, and
which amalgamate themselves more than cent per cent (satddupari

111
Kautilya's Arthashastra

veddhdrah) with copper or silver.

Of similar appearance as the above (tatpratiripakam), but of
piercing smell and taste is Bitumen.

Those ores which are obtained from plains or slopes of
mountains; which are either yellow or as red as copper or reddish
yellow; which are disjoined and marked with blue lines; which
have the colour of black beans (masha, Phraseolus Radiatus),
green beans (mudga, Phraseolus Mungo), and sesamum; which are
marked with spots like a drop of curd and resplendent as turmeric,
yellow myrobalan, petals of a lotus, acquatic plant, the liver or the
spleen; which possess a sandy layer within them and are marked
with figures of a circle or a svastika; which contain globular
masses (sagulika); and which, when roasted do not split, but emit
much foam and smoke are the ores of gold (suvarnadhdtavah), and
are used to form amalgams with copper or silver (prativdpdrthasté
stamrarvupyavedhardh).

Those ores which have the colour of a conch-shell, camphor,
alum, butter, a pigeon, turtle-dove, Vimalaka (a kind of precious
stone), or the neck of a peacock; which are as resplendent as opal
(sasyaka), agate (gomédaka), cane-sugar (guda), and granulated
sugar (matsyandika) which has the colour of the flower of koviddra
(Bauhinia Variegata), of lotus, of patali (Bignonia Suaveolens), of
kalaya (a kind of phraseolus), of kshauma (flax), and of atasi
(Dinuin Usitatissimum); which may be in combination with lead or
iron (anjana); which smell like raw meat, are disjoined gray or
blackish white, and are marked with lines or spots; and which,
when roasted, do not split, but emit much foam and smoke are
silver ores.

The heavier the ores, the greater will be the quantity of metal
in them (satvavriddhih).

112
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The impurities of ores, whether superficial or inseparably
combined with them can be got rid of and the metal melted when
the ores are (chemically) treated with Tikshna urine (muitra) and
alkalies (kshdra), and are mixed or smeared over with the mixture
of (the powder of) Rajavriksha (Clitoria Ternatea), Vata (Ficus
Indica), and Pelu (Carnea Arborea), together with cow's bile and
the urine and dung of a buffalo, an ass and an elephant.

(Metals) are rendered soft when they are treated with (the
powder of) kandali (mushroom), and vajrakanda, (Antiquorum)
together with the ashes of barley, black beans, paldsa (Butea
Frondosa), and pelu (Carnea Arborea), or with the milk of both
the cow and the sheep. Whatever metal is split into a hundred
thousand parts is rendered soft when it is thrice soaked in the
mixture made up of honey (madhu), madhuka (Bassia Latifolia),
sheep's milk, sesamum oil, clarified butter, jaggery, kinva
(ferment) and mushroom.

Permanent softness (mridustambhana) is also attained when
the metal is treated with the powder of cow's teeth and horn.

Those ores which are obtained from plains or slopes of
mountains; and which are heavy, greasy, soft, tawny, green, dark,
bluish-yellow (harita), pale-red, or red are ores of copper.

Those ores which have the colour of kdkamechaka (Solanum
Indica), pigeon, or cow’s bile, and which are marked with white
lines and smell like raw meat are the ores of lead.

Those ores which are as variegated in colour as saline soil or
which have the colour of a burnt lump of earth are the ores of tin.

Those ores which are of orange colour (kurumba), or pale-red
(pdndurohita), or of the colour of the flower of sinduvdra (Vitex
Trifolia) are the ores of tikshna.

113
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Those ores which are of the colour of the leaf of kdnda
(Artemisia Indica) or of the leaf of birch are the ores of vaikrintaka.

Pure, smooth, efflugent, sounding (when struck), very hard
(satativrah), and of little colour (fanurdga) are precious stones.

The yield of mines may be put to such uses as are in vogue.

Commerce in commodities manufactured from mineral
products shall be centralized and punishment for manufacturers,
sellers, and purchasers of such commodities outside the prescribed
locality shall also be laid down.

A mine-labourer who steals mineral products except precious
stones shall be punished with a fine of eight times their value.

Any person who steals mineral products or carries on mining
operations without license shall be bound (with chains) and caused
to work (as a prisoner).

Mines which yield such minerals as are made use of in
preparing vessels (bhdnda) as well as those mines which require
large outlay to work out may be leased out for a fixed number of
the shares of the output or for a fixed rent (bhdgena prakrayena va)
Such mines as can be worked out without much outlay shall be
directly exploited (by Government agency).

The superintendent of metals (I6hddhyakshah) shall carry on
the manufacture of copper, lead, tin, vaikrintaka (mercury [?]),
drakiita (brass), vritta(?); kamsa (bronze or bell-metal), tdla
(sulphurate of arsenic), and lodhra (7), and also of commodities
(bhdnda) from them.

The superintendent of mint (lakshnddhyakshah), shall carry
114
Kautilya's Arthashastra

on the manufacture of silver coins (ridpyaripa) made up of four
parts of copper and one-sixteenth part (mmdsha) of any one of the
metals, tikshna, trapu, sisa, and anjana. There shall be a pana, half
a pana, a quarter and one-eighth.

Copper coins (tdmraripa) made up of four parts of an alloy
(pddajivam), shall be a mdshaka, half a mdshaka, kdkani and half a
kdkani.

The examiner of coins (ridpadarsaka) shall regulate currency
both as a medium of exchange (vydvahdrikim) and as legal tender
admissible into the treasury (kosapravesydm): The premia levied
on coins paid into the treasury shall be) 8 per cent, known as
ripika, 5 per cent known as vydji, one-eighth pana per cent as
pdrikshika (testing charge), besides (cha) a fine of 25 pana to be
imposed on offenders other than the manufacturer, the seller, the
purchaser and the examiner.

The superintendent of ocean-mines (khanyadhyakshah) shall
attend to the collection of conch-shells, diamonds, precious stones,
pearls, corals, and salt (kshdra) and also regulate the commerce in
the above commodities.

Soon after crystalisation of salt is over, the superintendent of
salt shall in time collect both the money-rent (prakraya) and the
quantity of the shares of salt due to the government; and by the sale
of salt (thus collected as shares) he shall realise not only its value
(miilyam), but also the premium of five per cent (vydjim), both in
cash (ripa).

Imported salt (dgantulavanam) shall pay one-sixth portion
(shadbhdga) to the king. The sale of this portion (bhdgavibhdga)
shall fetch the premia of five per cent (vydji), of eight per cent
(rdpika) in cash (ripa). The purchasers shall pay not only the toll

115
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(sulka), but also the compensation (vaidharana) equivalent to the
loss entailed on the king's commerce. In default of the above
payment, he shall be compelled to pay a fine of 600 panas.

Adulteration of salt shall be punished with the highest
amercement; likewise persons other than hermits (vdnaprastha)
manufacturing salt without license.

Men learned in the Vedas, persons engaged in penance, as
well as labourers may take with them salt for food; salt and alkalies
for purposes other than this shall be subject to the payment of toll.

Thus; besides collecting from mines the ten kinds of revenue,
such as (1) value of the out-put (miilya), (2) the share of the out-put
(vibhdga), (3) the premium of five per cent (vydji), (4) the testing
charge of coins (parigha), (5) fine previously announced (atyaya),
(6) toll (sulka), (7) compensation for loss entailed on the king's
commerce (vaidharana), (8) fines to be determined in proportion
to the gravity of crimes (danda), (9), coinage (ripa), (10) the
premium of eight per cent (ripika), the government shall keep as a
state monopoly both mining and commerce (in minerals).

Thus taxes (mukhasangraha) on all commodities intended
for sale shall be prescribed once for all.

[Thus ends Chapter XII, "Conducting Mining Operations and
Manufacture” in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
thirty-third chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XIII. SUPERINTENDENT OF GOLD IN THE
GOLDSMITH'S OFFICE.

116
Kautilya's Arthashastra

IN order to manufacture gold and silver jewellry, each being
kept apart, the superintendent of gold shall have a goldsmiths
office (akshasdla) consisting of four rooms and one door.

In the centre of the high road a trained, skilful goldsmith of
high birth and of reliable character shall be appointed to hold his
shop.

Jdmbiinada, that which is the product of the river, Jambu;
Sdtakumbha, that which is extracted from the mountain of
Satakumba;, Hdtaka, that which is extracted from the mines known
as Hdtaka; Vainava, that which is the product of the mountain,
Vénu; and Sringasiiktija, that which is extracted from sringasiikti
(7) are the varieties of gold.

(Gold may be obtained) either pure or amalgamated with
mercury or silver or alloyed with other impurities as mine gold
(dkarodgata).

That which is of the colour of the petals of a lotus, ductile,
glossy, incapable of making any continuous sound (anddi), and
glittering is the best; that which is reddish yellow (raktapita) is of
middle quality; and that which is red is of low quality.

Impure gold is of whitish colour. It shall be fused with lead of
four times the quantity of the impurity. When gold is rendered
brittle owing to its contamination with lead, it shall be heated with
dry cowdung (sushkapatala). When it splits into pieces owing to
hardness, it shall be drenched (after heating) into oil mixed with
cowdung (tailagomaye).

Mine gold which is brittle owing to its contamination with
lead shall be heated wound round with cloth (pdkapatrdni kritvd);
and hammered on a wooden anvil. Or it may be drenched in the

117
Kautilya's Arthashastra

mixture made of mushroom and vajrakhanda (Antiquorum).

Tutthodgata, what which is extracted from the mountain,
Tuttha; gaudika, that which is the product of the country known as
Gauda;, kdmbuka, that which is extracted from the mountain,
Kambu;, and chdkravdlika, that which is extracted from the
mountain Chakravdla are the varieties of silver.

Silver which is white, glossy, and ductile is the best; and that
which is of the reverse quality is bad.

Impure silver shall be heated with lead of one-fourth the
quantity of the impurity.

That which becomes full of globules, white, glowing, and of
the colour of curd is pure.

When the streak of pure gold (made on touch-stone) is of the
colour of turmeric, it is termed suvarna. When from one to sixteen
kdkanis of gold in a suvarna (of sixteen mdshakas) are replaced by
from one to sixteen kdkanis of copper, so that the copper is
inseparably alloyed with the whole mass of the remaining quantity
of the gold, the sixteen varieties (carats) of the standard of the
purity of gold (shodasavarnakdh) will be obtained.

Having first made a streak with suvarna on a touchstone, then
(by the side of the streak) a streak with a piece of the gold (to be
compared with it) shall be made.

Whenever a uniform streak made on the even surface of a
touch-stone can be wiped off or swept away or when the streak is
due to the sprinkling of any glittering powder (gairika) by the nail
on touch-stone, then an attempt for deception can be inferred.

118
Kautilya's Arthashastra

If, with the edge of the palm dipped in a solution, of vermilion
(jatihinguldka) or of sulphate of iron (pushpakdsisa) in cow's
urine, gold (suvarna) is touched, it becomes white.

A touch-stone with soft and shining splendour is the best. The
touch-stone of the Kdélinga country with the colour of green beans
is also the best. A touch-stone of even or uniform colour is good in
sale or purchase (of gold). That which possesses the colour of an
elephant, tinged with green colour and capable of reflecting light
(pratirdgi) is good in selling gold. That which is hard, durable, and
of uneven colour and not reflecting light, is good for purchasers
(krayahitah). That which is grey, greasy, of uniform colour, soft,
and glossy is the best.

That (gold) which, when heated, keeps the same colour (zdpo
bahirantascha samah), is as glittering as tender sprouts, or of the
colour of the flower of kdrandaka (7?) is the best.

That which is black or blue (in gold) is the impurity
(aprdptaka).

We shall deal with the balance and weights under the
"Superintendent of Weights and Measures” (Chap. XIX, Book II).
In accordance with the instructions given thereunder silver and
gold (rdpyasuvarnam) may be given in exchange.

No person who is not an employee shall enter the
gold-smiths’ office. Any person who so enters shall be beheaded
(uchchhedyah).

Any workman who enters the office with gold or silver shall
have to forfeit the same.

Goldsmiths who are engaged to prepare various kinds of

119
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ornaments such as kdnchana (pure gold), prishita (hollow
ornaments), tvashtri (setting gems in gold) and tapaniya; as well as
blowers and sweepers shall enter into or exit from the office after
their person and dress are thoroughly examined. All of their
instruments together with their unfinished work shall be left where
they have been at work. That amount of gold which they have
received and the ornamental work which they were doing shall be
put in the centre of the office. (Finished articles) shall be examined
both morning and evening and be locked up with the seal of both
the manufacturer and the superintendent (kdrayatri, the owner
getting the articles prepared).

Kshepana, guna, and kshudra ate three kinds of ornamental
work.

Setting jewels (kdcha, glass bead) in gold is termed
kshepana.

Thread-making or string making is called guna.

Solid work (ghana), hollow work (sushira), and the
manufacture of globules furnished with a rounded orifice is what is
termed kshudra, low or ordinary work.

For setting jewels in gold, five parts of kdiichana (pure gold)
and ten parts of gold alloyed with four parts of copper or silver
shall be the required quantity (mdna). Here the pure gold shall be
preserved from the impure gold.

For setting jewels in hollow ornaments (prishitakdcha
karmanah), three parts of gold to hold the jewel and four parts for
the bottom (shall be the required quantity).

For the work of tvashtri, copper and gold shall be mixed in

120
Kautilya's Arthashastra

equal quantities.

For silver article either solid or hollow, silver may be mixed
with half of the amount of gold; or by making use of the powder or
solution of vermilion, gold equal to one-fourth the amount of silver
of the ornament may be painted (vdsayet) on it.

Pure and glittering gold is tapaniya. This combined with an
equal quantity of lead and heated with rock-salt (saindhav'ika) to
melting point under dry cowdung becomes the basis of gold alloys
of blue, red, white, yellow (harita), parrot and pidgeon colours.

The colouring ingredient of gold is one kdkani of tikshna
which is of the colour of the neck of a peacock, tinged with white,
and which is dazzling and full of copper (pitapdrnitam).

Pure or impure silver (tdra) may be heated four times with
asthituttha (copper sulphate mixed with powdered bone), again
four times with an equal quantity of lead, again four times with dry
copper sulphate (sushkatuttha) again three times in skull (kapdla),
and lastly twice in cowdung. Thus the silver acted upon seventeen
times by tuttha (shodasatutthdtikrdntam) and lastly heated to white
light with rock salt may be made to alloy with suvarna to the extent
of from one kdkani to two Mdshas. Then the suvarna attains white
colour and is called sveta-tdra.

When three parts of fapaniya (pure gold) are melted with
thirty-two parts of svetatdra, the compound becomes reddish white
(svetalohitakam). When three parts of tapaniya are combined with
thirty-two parts of copper, the compound becomes yellow (pita,
red!). Also when three parts of the colouring ingredient
(rdgatribhdga, i.e., tikshna referred to above) are heated with
tapaniya, the compound becomes yellowish red (pita).

When two parts of sveta-tdra and one part of fapaniya are heated,

121
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the whole mass becomes as green as mudga (Phraseolus Mungo).
When tapaniya is drenched in a solution of half the quantity of
black iron (kdldyasa), it becomes black.

When tapaniya is twice drenched in (the above) solution
mixed with mercury (rasa), it acquires the colour of the feathers of
a parrot.

Before these varieties of gold are put to use, their test streak
shall be taken on touchstone. The process of assaying tikshna and
copper shall be well understood. Hence the various counterweights
(avaneyimdna) used in weighing diamonds, rubies, pearls, corals,
and coins, (ridpa), as well as the proportional amount of gold and
silver necessary for various kinds of ornaments can be well
understood.

Uniform in colour, equal in the colour of test streak to the
standard gold, devoid of hollow bulbs, ductile (sthira), very
smooth, free from alloys, pleasing when worn as an ornament, not
dazzling though glittering, sweet in its uniformity of mass, and
pleasing the mind and eyes,---these are the qualities of tapanivya,
pure gold.

[Thus ends Chapter XIII, "The Superintendent of Gold in the
Goldsmiths" Office,” in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
thirty-fourth chapter from the beginning. |

CHAPTER XIV. THE DUTIES OF THE STATE
GOLDSMITH IN THE HIGH ROAD.

122
Kautilya's Arthashastra

THE State Goldsmith shall employ artisans to manufacture
gold and silver coins (rdpyasuvarna) from the bullion of citizens
and country people.

The artisans employed in the office shall do their work as
ordered and in time. When under the excuse that time and nature of
the work has not been prescribed, they spoil the work, they shall
not only forfeit their wages, but also pay a fine of twice the amount
of their wages. When they postpone work, they shall forfeit
one-fourth the amount of their wages and pay a fine of twice the
amount of the forfeited wages.

(The goldsmith of the mint) shall return (to the owners coins
or ornaments) of the same weight, and of the same quality (varna)
as that of the bullion (nikshepa) which they received (at the mint).
With the exception of those (coins) which have been worn out or
which have undergone diminution (kshinaparisirna), they shall
receive the same coins (back into the mint) even after the lapse of a
number of years.

The state goldsmith shall gather from the artisans employed
in the mint information concerning pure gold, metallic mass
(pudgala), coins (lakshana), and rate of exchange (praydga).

In getting a suvarna coin (of 16 mdshas) manufactured from
gold or from silver, one kdkani (one-fourth mdsha) weight of the
metal more shall be given to the mint towards the loss in
manufacture.

The colouring ingredient (rdgaprakshépa) shall be two
kdkanis of tikshna (copper sulphate ?) one-sixth of which will be
lost during the manufacture.

When the quality (varna) of a coin less than the standard of a
mdsha is lowered, the artisans (concerned) shall be punished with

123
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the first amercement. When its weight is less than the standard
weight, they shall be punished with the middlemost amercement.
Deception in balance or weights shall be punished with the highest
amercement. Deception in the exchange of manufactured coins
(kritabhdndopadhau) shall also be punished with the highest
amercement.

Whoever causes (gold or silver articles) to be manufactured in
any place other than the mint or without being noticed by the state
goldsmith shall be fined 12 pands, while the artisan who does that
work shall, if found out, be punished with twice the above fine. If
he is not found out, measures such as are described in Book IV
shall be taken to detect him. When thus detected, he shall be fined
200 pands or shall have his fingers cut off.

Weighing balance and counterweights shall be purchased
from the superintendent in charge of them. Otherwise a fine of 12
pands shall be imposed.

Compact work (ghana), compact and hollow work
(ghanasushira), soldering (samyiihya), amalgamation (avalepya),
enclosing (samghdtya), and gilding (vdsitakam) are the various
kinds of artisan work (kdrukasma).

False balances (tuldvishama), removal (apasdrana), dropping
(visrdvana), folding (petaka), and confounding (pinka) are the
several means employed by goldsmiths to deceive the public.

False balance are—that of bending arms (sanndmini); that of
high helm or pivot (utkarnika); that of broken head
(bhinnamastaka); that of hollow neck (upakanthi); that of bad
strings (kusikya); that of bad cups or pans (sakatukakshya); that
which is crooked or shaking (pdrivellya); and that which is
combined with a magnet (ayaskdnta).

124
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When, by what is called Triputaka which consists of two parts
of silver and one part of copper, an equal portion of pure alluvial
gold is replaced, that deceitful act is termed copper-removal
(triputakd-vasdritam); when, by copper, an equal portion of gold is
replaced, that act is termed copper-removal (sulbdvasdritam);
when by vellakaan equal portion of gold is replaced, it is termed
vellaka-removal; and when pure alluvial gold is replaced by that
gold half of which is mixed with copper, it is termed gold removal
(hemdvasdritam).

A crucible with a base metallic piece hidden in it; metallic
excrement; pincers; a pair of tongs; metallic pieces (jongani); and
borax (sauvarchikdlavanam),—these are the several things which
are made use of by goldsmiths in stealing gold.

When, intentionally causing the crucible (containing the
bullion) to burst, a few sandlike particles of the metal are picked up
along with other particles of a base metal previously put therein,
and the whole is wrought into a mass for the intended coin or
ornament), this act is termed dropping (visravana); or when
examining the folded or inlaid leaves of an ornament
(dchitakapatraparikshdydm) deception is perpetrated by
substituting silver for gold, or when particles of a base metal are
substituted for those of gold, it is termed dropping (visrdvana)
likewise.

Folding (petaka) either firm (gddha) or loose
(abhyuddhdrya) is practiced in soldering, in preparing amalgams,
and in enclosing (a piece of base metal with two pieces of a
superior metal).

When a lead piece (sisaridpa--lead coin) is firmly covered
over with gold leaf by means of wax (ashtaka), that act is termed
gddhapetaka, firm folding; and when the same is loosely folded, it
is termed loose folding.

125
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In amalgams, a single or double layer (of a superior metal) is
made to cover a piece (of base metal). Copper or silver may also be
placed between two leaves (of a superior metal). A copper piece
(sulbaripya) may be covered over with gold leaf, the surface and
the edges being smoothened; similarly a piece of any base metal
may be covered over with double leaf of copper or silver, the
surface and the edges being smoothened.

The two forms of folding may be detected by heating, by
testing on touch-stone (nikasha) or by observing absence of sound
when it is rubbed (nissabdollekhana).

(They) find out loose folding in the acid juice of badardmla
(Flacourtia Cataphracta or jujube fruit) or in salt water;—so much
for folding (petaka).

In a compact and hollow piece (ghana-sushire ripe), small
particles of gold-like mud (suvarnamrinvdlukdh) or bit of
vermilion (hingulakalkah) are so heated as to make them firmly
adhere to the piece inside. Even in a compact piece (dridhavdstuke
ripe), the waxlike mud of Gdndhdra mixed with the particles of
goldlike sand is so heated as to adhere to the piece. These two kinds
of impurities are got rid of by hammering the pieces when red hot.

In an ornament or a coin (sapari-bhdnde vd ripe) salt mixed
with hard sand (katusarkard) is so heated in flame as to make it
firmly adhere to (the ornament or coin). This (salt and sand) can be
got rid of by boiling (kvdthana).

In some pieces, mica may be firmly fixed inside by wax and
covered over with a double leaf (of gold or silver). When such a
piece with mica or glass inside is suspended in water (udake) one
of its sides dips more than the other; or when pierced by a pin, the
pin goes very easily in the layers of mica in the interior

126
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(pataldntareshu).

Spurious stones and counterfeit gold and silver may be
substituted for real ones in compact and hollow pieces
(ghanasushira). They are detected by hammering the pieces when
red hot---so much for confounding (pinka).

Hence (the state goldsmith) shall have a thorough knowledge
of the species, characteristics, colour, weight, and formation
(pudgala-lakshana) of diamonds, precious stones (mani), pearls,
corals and coins (ipa).

There are four ways of deception perpetrated when examining
new pieces or repairing old ones: they are hammering, cutting,
scratching and rubbing.

When, under the excuse of detecting the deception known as
folding (petaka) in hollow pieces or in threads or in cups (made of
gold or silver), the articles in question are hammered, that act is
termed hammering.

When a lead piece (covered over with gold or silver leaf) is
substituted for a real one and its interior is cut off, it is termed
cutting (avachchhedanam).

When compact pieces are scratched by tikshna (copper
sulphate ?), that act is termed scratching (ullekhana).

When, by a piece of cloth painted with the powder of
sulphuret of arsenic (haritdla), red arsenic (manassila), or
vermilion or with the powder of kuruvinda (black salt 7), gold or
silver articles are rubbed, that act is termed rubbing.

By these acts, gold and silver articles (bhdnddni) undergo

127
Kautilya's Arthashastra

diminution; but no other kind of injury is done to them.

In all those pieces which are hammered, cut, scratched, or
rubbed the loss can be inferred by comparing them with intact
pieces of similar description. In amalgamated pieces (avalepya)
which are cut off, the loss can be ascertained by cutting off an equal
portion of a similar piece. Those pieces the appearance of which
has changed shall be often heated and drenched in water.

(The state goldsmith) shall infer deception (kdcham vidydt)
when [the artisan preparing articles pays undue attention to]
throwing away, counter-weight, fire, anvil (gandika), working
instruments (bhandika), the seat (adhikarani), the assaying
balance, folds of dress (chellachollakam), his head, his thigh, flies,
eagerness to look at his own body, the water-pot, and the firepot.

Regarding silver, bad smell like that of rotten meat, hardness
due to any alloy (mala), projection (prastina), and bad colour may
be considered as indicating adulteration.

Thus articles (of gold and silver) new or old, or of bad or
unusual colour are to be examined and adequate fines as described
above shall be imposed.

[Thus ends Chapter XIV, “The Duties of the State Goldsmith in the
High Road” in Book II, “The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of thirty-fifth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER XV. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
STOREHOUSE.

128
Kautilya's Arthashastra

THE superintendent of storehouse (Koshthdgdra) shall
supervise the accounts of agricultural produce (sita); taxes coming
under Rdshtra, country-parts; commerce (krayima); barter
(parivartna); begging for grains (prdmityaka); grains borrowed
with promise to repay (dpamityaka); manufacture of rice, oils, etc.
(simhanika); accidental revenue (anyajdta); statements to check
expenditure (vyayapratyaya); and recovery of past arrears
(upasthdnam).

Whatever in the shape of agricultural produce is brought in by
the superintendent of agriculture, (of crown-lands) is termed sitd.

The taxes that are fixed (pindakara), taxes that are paid in the
form of one-sixth of produce (shadbhdga), provision paid (by the
people) for the army (sendbhakta), taxes that are levied for
religious purposes (bali), taxes or subsidies that are paid by vassal
kings and others (kara), taxes that are specially collected on the
occasion of the birth of a prince (utsanga), taxes that are collected
when there is some margin left for such collection (pdrsva),
compensation levied in the shape of grains for any damage done by
cattle to crops (pdrihinaka), presentation made to the king,
(aupdyanika), and taxes that are levied on lands below tanks, lakes,
etc., built by the king (Kaushtheyaka),--all these come under the
head ‘Rdshtra.’

Sale proceeds of grains, grains purchased and the collection
of interest in kind or grain debts (prayogapratydddna) are termed

commerce.

Profitable exchange of grains for grains is termed barter
(parivarthana).

Grains collected by begging is termed prdmityaka.

129
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Grains borrowed with promise to repay the same is termed
dpamityaka.

Pounding (rice, etc.), dividing (pulses, etc.), frying (corns and
beans), manufacture of beverages (suktakarma), manufacture of
flour by employing those persons who live upon such works,
extracting oil by employing shepherds and oil-makers, and
manufacture of sugar from the juice of sugar-cane are termed
simhanika.

Whatever is lost and forgotten (by others) and the like form
accidental revenue (anyajdta).

Investment, the relic of a wrecked undertaking, and savings
from an estimated outlay are the means to check expenditure

(vyayapratyaya).

That amount or quantity of compensation which is claimed
for making use of a different balance or for any error in taking a
handful is termed vydji.

Collection of arrears is termed ‘upasthdna,” ‘recovery of
past arrears.’

Of grains, oils, sugar, and salt, all that concerns grains will be
treated of in connection with the duties of the ‘Superintendent of
Agriculture.”

Clarified butter, oil, serum of flesh, and pith or sap (of plants,
etc.)., are termed oils (sneha).

Decoction (phdnita), jaggory, granulated sugar, and
sugar-candy are termed kshdra.

Saindhava, that which is the product of the country of Sindhu;
130
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Sdmudra, that which is produced from seawater; Bida;
Yavakshara, nitre, Sauvarchala, that which is the product of the
country of suvarchala; and udbhedaja, that which is extracted from
saline soil are termed lavana, salt.

The honey of the bee as well as the juice extracted from
grapes are called madhu.

Mixture made by combining any one of the substances, such
as the juice of sugarcane, jaggory, honey,. the, juice of grapes, the
essence of the fruits of jambu (Euginia Jambolana) and of jaka
tree—with the essence of meshasringa (a kind of plant) and long
pepper, with or without the addition of the essence of chirbhita (a
kind of gourd), cucumber, sugar-cane, mango-fruit and the fruit of
myrobalam, the mixture being prepared so as to last for a month, or
six months, or a year, constitute the group of astringents
(sukta-varga).

The fruits of those trees which bear acid fruits, those of
karamarda (Carissa  Carandas), those of vidaldmalka
(myrobalam), those of matulanga (citron tree), those of kola (small
jujuba), those of badara (Flacourtia Cataphracta), those of
sauvira (big jujuba), and those of parushaka (Grewia Asiatica) and
the like come under the group of acid fruits.

Curds, acid prepared from grains and the like are acids in
liquid form.

Long pepper, black pepper, ginger, cumin seed, kiratatikta
(Agathotes Chirayta), white mustard, coriander, choraka (a plant),
damanaka (Artemisia Indica), maruvaka (Vangueria Spinosa),
sigru (Hyperanthera Moringa), and the like together with their
roots (kdnda) come under the group of pungent substances
(tiktavarga).

131
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Dried fish, bulbous roots (kdndamuila), fruits and vegetables
form the group of edibles (sakavarga).

Of the store, thus, collected, half shall be kept in reserve to
ward off the calamities of the people and only the other half shall
be used. Old collection shall be replaced by new supply.

The superintendent shall also personally supervise the
increase or diminution sustained in grains when they are pounded
(kshunna), or frayed (ghrishta), or reduced to flour (pishta), or
fried (bhrashta), or dried after soaking in water.

The essential part (sdra, i.e., that which is fit for food) of
kodrava (Paspalam Scrobiculatum) and of vrihi (rice) is one-half;
that of sdli (a kind of rice) is (half) less by one-eighth part; that of
varaka (Phraseolus Trilobus) is (half) less by one-third part; that of
priyangu (panic seed or millet) is one-half ; that of chamasi
(barley), of mudga (Phraseolus Mungo) and of masha (Phraseolus
Radiatus) is (half) less by one-eighth part; that of saibya (simbi) is
one-half; that of masira (Ervum Hirsutum) is (half) less by
one-third part (than the raw material or grains from which it is
prepared).

Raw flour and kulmasha (boiled and forced rice) will be as
much as one and a half of the original quantity of the grains.

Barley gruel as well as its flour baked will be twice the
original quantity.

Kodrava (Paspalam Scrobiculatum), varaka (Phraseolus
Trilobus), uddraka (Panicum), and priyangu (millet) will increase
three times the original quantity when cooked. Virihi (rice) will
increase four times when cooked. Sdli (a kind of rice) will increase
five times when cooked.

132
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Grains will increase twice the original quantity when
moistened; and two and a half times when soaked to sprouting
condition.

Grains fried will increase by one-fifth the original quantity;
leguminous seeds (kaldya), when fried, will increase twice the
original; likewise rice when fried.

Oil extracted from atasi (linseed) will be one-sixth (of the
quantity of the seed); that extracted from the seeds, nimba
(Azadirachta Indica), kusdmra (7), and Kapittha (Feronia
Elephantum) will be one-fifth; and that extracted from tila
(seasumum), kusumba (a sort of kidney bean), madhiika (Bassia
Latifolia), and ingudi (Terminalia Catappa) will be one-fourth.

Five palas of kdrpdsa (cotton) and of kshauma (flax) will
yield one pala of threads.

Rice prepared in such a way that five drona of sdli yield ten
ddhakas of rice will be fit to be the food of young elephants; eleven
ddhakas from five drénas for elephants of bad temper (vydla); ten
ddhakas from the same quantity for elephants trained for riding;
nine ddhakas from the same quantity for elephants used in war;
eight ddhakas from the same for infantry; eleven ddhakas from the
same for chiefs of the army; six ddhakas from the same for queens
and princes and five ddhakas from the same quantity for kings.

One prastha of rice, pure and unsplit, one-fourth prastha of
stipa, and clarified butter or oil equal to one-fourth part of (sipa)
will suffice to form one meal of an Arya.

One-sixth prastha of sipa for a man; and half the above

quantity of oil will form one meal for low castes (avara).

133
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The same rations less by one-fourth the above quantities will
form one meal for a woman; and half the above rations for
children.

For dressing twenty palas of flesh, half a kutumba of oil, one
pala of salt, one pala of sugar (kshdra), two dharanas of pungent
substances (katuka, spices), and half a prastha of curd (will be
necessary).

For dressing greater quantities of flesh, the same ingredients
can be proportionally increased.

For cooking sdkas (dried fish and vegetables), the above
substances are to be added one and a half times as much.

For dressing dried fish, the above ingredients are to be added

twice as much.

Measures of rations for elephants and horses will be described
in connection with the "Duties of Their Respective
Superintendents.”

For bullocks, one drona of masha (Phraseolus Radiatus) or
one drona of barley cooked with other things, as prescribed for
horses, is the requisite quantity of food, besides the special and
additional provision of one tula of oilcakes (ghdnapinyaka) or ten
ddhakas of bran (kanakuttana-kundaka).

Twice the above quantity for buffaloes and camels.

Half a drona for asses, red spotted deer and deer with white
stripes.

134
Kautilya's Arthashastra

One ddhaka for an antelope and big red deer.
Half an ddhaka or one ddhaka of grain together with bran for

a goat, a ram and a

boar.
One prastha of cooked rice for dogs.
Half a prastha for a hamsa (goose), a krauncha (heron) and a

peacock.

From the above, the quantity of rations enough for one meal
for other beasts, cattle, birds, and rogue elephants (vydla) may be
inferred.

Charcoal and chaff may be given over for iron smelting and
lime-kiln (bhittilepya).

Bran and flour (kdnika) may be given to slaves, labourers, and
cooks. The surplus of the above may be given to those who prepare
cooked rice, and rice-cakes.

The weighing balance, weights, measures, mill-stone
(rochani), pestle, mortar, wooden contrivances for pounding rice,
etc., (kuttakayantra), contrivances for splitting seeds into pieces
(rochakayantra), winnowing fans, sieves (chdlani) grain-baskets
(kandoli), boxes, and brooms are the necessary instruments.

Sweepers; preservers; those who weigh things (dharaka);
those who measure grains, etc.; those who supervise the work of
measuring grains (mdpaka); those who supervise the supply of

135
Kautilya's Arthashastra

commodities to the store-house (ddpaka); those who supply
commodities (ddyaka); those who are employed to receive
compensation for any real or supposed error in measuring grains,
etc. (sdldkdipratigrdhaka); slaves; and labourers;—all these are
called vishti.

Grains are heaped up on the floor; jaggory (kshdra) is bound
round in grass-rope (muita); oils are kept in earthenware or wooden
vessels; and salt is heaped up on the surface of the ground.

[Thus ends Chapter XV, “The Superintendent of Storehouse,” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the thirty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVI. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
COMMERCE.

THE Superintendent of Commerce shall ascertain demand or
absence of demand for, and rise or fall in the price of, various kinds
of merchandise which may be the products either of land or of
water and which may have been brought in either by land or by
water path. He shall also ascertain the time suitable for their
distribution, centralisation, purchase, and sale.

That merchandise which is widely distributed shall be
centralised and its price enhanced. When the enhanced rate
becomes popular, another rate shall be declared.

That merchandise of the king which is of local manufacture
shall be centralised; imported merchandise shall be distributed in

136
Kautilya's Arthashastra

several markets for sale. Both kinds of merchandise shall be
favourably sold to the people.

He shall avoid such large profits as will harm the people.
There shall be no restriction to the time of sale of those
commodities for which there is frequent demand; nor shall they be
subject to the evils of centralisation (sankuladosha).

Or pedlars may sell the merchandise of the king at a fixed
price in many markets and pay necessary compensation
(vaidharana) proportional to the loss entailed upon it
(chheddnuripam).

The amount of vydji due on commodities sold by cubical
measure is one-sixteenth of the quantity (shodasabhdgo
mdnavydji); that on commodities sold by weighing balance is
one-twentieth of the quantity; and that on commodities sold in
numbers is one-eleventh of the whole.

The superintendent shall show favour to those who import
foreign merchandise: mariners (ndvika) and merchants who import
foreign merchandise shall be favoured with remission of the
trade-taxes, so that they may derive some profit (dyatikshamam
parihdram dadydt).

Foreigners importing merchandise shall be exempted from
being sued for debts unless they are (local) associations and
partners
(anabhiyogaschdrthesshvdgantindmanyatassabhyopakdri bhyah).

Those who sell the merchandise of the king shall invariably

put their sale proceeds in a wooden box kept in a fixed place and
provided with a single aperture on the top.

137
Kautilya's Arthashastra

During the eighth part of the day, they shall submit to the
superintendent the sale report, saying "this much has been sold and
this much remains;" they shall also hand over the weights and
measures. Such are the rules applicable to local traffic.

As regards the sale of the king's merchandise in foreign
countries:---

Having ascertained the value of local produce as compared
with that of foreign produce that can be obtained in barter, the
superintendent will find out (by calculation) whether there is any
margin left for profit after meeting the payments (to the foreign
king) such as the toll (sulka), road-cess (vartani), conveyance-cess
(dtivdhika), tax payable at military stations (gulmadeya),
ferry-charges (taradeya), subsistence to the merchant and his
followers (bhakta), and the portion of merchandise payable to the
foreign king (bhdga).

If no profit can be realised by selling the local produce in
foreign countries, he has to consider whether any local produce can
be profitably bartered for any foreign produce. Then he may send
one quarter of his valuable merchandise through safe roads to
different markets on land. In view of large profits, he (the deputed
merchant) may make friendship with the forest-guards,
boundary-guards, and officers in charge of cities and of
country-parts (of the foreign king). He shall take care to secure his
treasure (sdra) and life from danger. If he cannot reach the
intended market, he may sell the merchandise (at any market) free
from all dues (sarvadeyavisuddham).

Or he may take his merchandise to other countries through
rivers (nadipatha).

He shall also gather information as to conveyance-charges
(vdnabhdgaka), subsistence on the way (pathyadana), value of

138
Kautilya's Arthashastra

foreign merchandise that can be obtained in barter for local
merchandise, occasions of pilgrimages (ydtrakdla), means that can
be employed to ward off dangers (of the journey), and the history
of commercial towns (panyapattanachdritra).

Having gathered information as to the transaction in
commercial towns along the banks of rivers, he shall transport his
merchandise to profitable markets and avoid unprofitable ones.

[Thus ends Chapter XVI, “The Superintendent of Commerce” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of thirty-seventh chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVII. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF FOREST
PRODUCE.

THE Superintendent of Forest Produce shall collect timber
and other products of forests by employing those who guard
productive forests. He shall not only start productive works in
forests, but also fix adequate fines and compensations to be levied
from those who cause any damage to productive forests except in
calamities.

The following are forest products.

Sdka (teak), tinisa (Dalbergia Ougeinensis), dhanvana (7),
arjuna (Terminalia Arjuna), madhiika (Bassia Latifolia), tilaka
(Barleria Cristata), tdla (palmyra), simsipa (Dalbergia Sissu),
arimeda (Fetid Mimosa), rdjddana (Mimosops Kauki), sirisha
(Mimosa Sirisha), khadira (Mimosa Catechu), sarala (Pinus

139
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Longifolia), tdlasarja (sal tree or Shorea Robesta), asvakarna
(Vatica Robesta), somavalka (a kind of white khadira), kasdmra
(7), priyaka (yellow sal tree), dhava (Mimosa Hexandra), etc., are
the trees of strong timber (sdraddruvarga).

Utaja, Chimiya, Chava, Vénu, Vamsa, Sdtina, Kantaka, and
Bhdllitka, etc., form the group of bamboo.

Vetra (cane), sokavalli, vdsi (Justicia Ganderussa 7),
sydmalatd (Ichnocarpus), ndgalata (betel), etc., form the group of
creepers.

Madlati (Jasminum Grandiflorum), dirvd (panic grass), arka
(Calotropis Gigantea), sana (hemp), gavedhuka (Coix Barbata),
atasi (Linum Usitatis simum), etc., form the group of fibrous plants
(valkavarga).

Munja (Saccharum Munja), balbaja (Eleusine Indica), etc.,
are plants which yield rope-making material (rajjubhdnda).
Tali (Corypha Taliera), tdla (palmyra or Borassus
Flabelliformis), and bhiirja (birch) yield leaves (patram).
Kimsuka (Butea Frondosa), kusumbha (Carthamus
Tinctorius), and kumkuma (Crocus Sativus) yield flowers.
Bulbous roots and fruits are the group of medicines.
Kdlakiita, Vatsandbha, Hdldhala, Meshasringa, Mustd,
(Cyperus Rotundus), kushtha, mahdvisha, vellitaka, gaurdrdra,

bdlaka, mdrkata, haimavata, kdlingaka, daradaka, kolasdraka,
ushtraka, etc., are poisons.

Likewise snakes and worms kept in pots are the group of

140
Kautilya's Arthashastra

poisons.

Skins are those of godha (alligator), seraka (7), dvipi
(leopard), simsumdra (porpoise), simha (lion), vydghra (tiger),
hasti, (elephant.), mahisha (buffalo), chamara (bos grunniens),

gomriga (bos gavaeus), and gavaya (the gayal).

Bones, bile (pittha), sndyu (7), teeth, horn, hoofs, and tails of
the above animals as well as of other beasts, cattle, birds and
snakes (vydla).

Kdldyasa (iron), tdmra (copper), vritta (7), kdmsya (bronze),

sisa (lead), trapu (tin),
vaikrintaka (mercury 7), and drakuata (brass), are metals.

Utensils (bhanda), are those made of cane, bark (vidala), and

clay (mrittikd).
Charcoal, bran, and ashes are other things.
Menageries of beasts, cattle, and birds.
Collection of firewood and fodder.

The superintendent of forest produce shall carry on either

inside or outside (the

capital city) the manufacture of all kinds of articles which are

141
Kautilya's Arthashastra

necessary for life or for the

defence of forts. [Thus ends Chapter XVII, “The Superintendent of
Forest Produce” in Book II, “The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of chapter
thirty-eighth from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XVIII. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE

ARMOURY.

THE Superintendent of the Armoury shall employ
experienced workmen of tried ability to manufacture in a given
time and for fixed wages wheels, weapons, mail armour, and other
accessory instruments for use in battles, in the construction or
defence of forts, or in destroying the cities or strongholds of
enemies.

All these weapons and instruments shall be kept in places
suitably prepared for them. They shall not only be frequently
dusted and transferred from one place to another, but also be
exposed to the sun. Such weapons as are likely to be affected by
heat and vapour (zishmopasneha) and to be eaten by worms shall be
kept in safe localities. They shall also be examined now and then
with reference to the class to which they belong, their forms, their
characteristics, their size, their source, their value, and their total
quantity.

Sarvatobhadra, jamadagnya, bahumukha, visvdsaghdti,

samghdti, ydnaka, parjanyaka, ardhabdhu, and drdhvabdhu are
immoveable machines (sthirayantrdm).

142
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Pdnchdlika, devadanda, sikarika, musala, yashti,
hastivdraka, tdlavrinta, mudgara, gada, spriktala, kudddla,
dsphdtima, audhghdtima, sataghni, trisila, and chakra are
moveable machines.

Sakti, prdsa, kunta, hdtaka, bhindivdla, sila, tomara,
vardhakarna, kanaya, karpana, trdsika, and the like are weapons
with edges like a ploughshare (halamukhdni).

Bows made of tdla (palmyra), of chdpa (a kind of bamboo),
of ddru (a kind of wood), and sringa (bone or hom) are
respectively called kdrmuka, kodanda, druna, and dhanus.

Bow-strings are made of mirva (Sansviera Roxburghiana),
arka (Catotropis Gigantea), sdna (hemp), gavedhu (Coix Barbata),
venu (bamboo bark), and sndyu (sinew).

Venu, sara, saldka, danddsana, and ndrdcha are different
kinds of arrows. The edges of arrows shall be so made of iron, bone
or wood as to cut, rend or pierce.

Nistrimsa, mandaldgra, and asiyashti are swords. The
handles of swords are made of the horn of rhinoceros, buffalo, of
the tusk of elephants, of wood, or of the root of bamboo.

Parasu, kuthdra, pattasa, khanitra, kudddla, chakra, and
kdndachchhedana are razor-like weapons.

Yantrapdshdna, goshpanapdshdna, mushtipdshdna, rochani
(mill-stone), and stones are other weapons (dyudhdni).

Lohajdlikd, patta, kavacha, and siitraka are varieties of
armour made of iron or of skins with hoofs and horns of porpoise,
rhinoceros, bison, elephant or cow.

143
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Likewise sirastrdna (cover for the head), kanthatrdna (cover
for the neck) kiirpdsa (cover for the trunk), kanchuka (a coat
extending as far as the knee joints), vdravdna (a coat extending as
far as the heels), patta, (a coat without cover for the arms), and
ndgodarikd (gloves) are varieties of armour.

Veti, charma, hastikarna, tdlamiila, dharmanika, kavdta,
kitika, apratihata, and valdhakdnta are instruments used in
self-defence (dvarandni).

Ornaments for elephants, chariots, and horses as well as
goads and hooks to lead them in battle-fields constitute accessory
things (upakarandni).

(Besides the above) such other delusive and destructive
contrivances (as are treated of in Book XIV) together with any
other new inventions of expert workmen (shall also be kept in
stock.)

The Superintendent of Armoury shall precisely ascertain the
demand and supply of weapons, their application, their wear and
tear, as well as their decay and loss.

[Thus ends Chapter XVIII, “The Superintendent of the Armoury”
in Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of thirty-ninth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XIX. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF WEIGHTS
AND MEASURES.

144
Kautilya's Arthashastra

THE Superintendent of Weights and Measures shall have the same
manufactured.

10 seeds of mdsha (Phraseolus Radiatus) or

5 ,, gunja (Cabrus Precatorius) = 1 suvarna-mdsha. 16
mdshas = 1 suvarna or karsha. 4 karshas = 1 pala. 88 white
mustard seeds = 1 silver-mdsha. 16 silver mashas or 20 saibya
seeds = 1 dharana. 20 grains of rice = 1 dharana of a diamond.

Ardha-mdsha (half a mdsha), one mdsha, two mdshas, four
mdshas, eight mdshas, one suvarna, two suvarnas, four suvarnas,
eight suvarnas, ten suvarnas, twenty suvarnas, thirty suvarnas,
forty suvarnas and one hundred suvarnas are different units of
weights.

Similar series of weights shall also be made in dharanas.

Weights (pratimdndni) shall be made of iron or of stones
available in the countries of Magadha and Mekala; or of such
things as will neither contract when wetted, nor expand under the
influence of heat.

Beginning with a lever of six angulas in length and of one
pala in the weight of its metallic mass, there shall be made ten
(different) balances with levers successively increasing by one
pala in the weight of their metallic masses, and by eight angulas in
their length. A scale-pan shall be attached to each of them on one or
both sides.

A balance called samavrittd, with its lever 72-angulas long
and weighing 53 palas in its metallic mass shall also be made. A
scalepan of 5 palas in the weight of its metallic mass being
attached to its edge, the horizontal position of the lever
(samakarana) when weighing a karsha shall be marked (on that

145
Kautilya's Arthashastra

part of the lever where, held by a thread, it stands horizontal). To
the left of that mark, symbols such as 1 pala, 12, 15 and 20 palas
shall be marked. After that, each place of tens up to 100 shall be
marked. In the place of Akshas, the sign of Ndndi shall be marked.

Likewise a balance called parimdni{ of twice as much metallic
mass as that of samavrittd and of 96 angulas in length shall be
made. On its lever, marks such as 20, 50 and 100 above its initial
weight of 100 shall be carved.

20 tulas == 1 bhdra.
10 dharanas == 1 pala.
100 such palas == 1 dyamdni (measure of roy

Public balance (vydvahdrikd), servants’ balance  (bhdjini), and hare

(antahpurabhdjini) successively decrease by five
palas (compared with dyamdni). A pala in
each of the above successively falls short of
the same in dyamdni by half a dharana. The
metallic mass of the levers of each of the
above successively decreases in weight by
two ordinary palas and in length by six
angulas. Excepting flesh, metals, salt, and
precious stones, an excess of five palas
(praydma) of all other commodities (shall
be given to the king ) when they are

weighed in the two first-named balances. A

146
Kautilya's Arthashastra

wooden balance with a lever § hands long,

with measuring marks and

counterpoise weights shall be erected on a pedestal like that of a
peacock. Twenty-five palas of firewood will cook one
prastha of rice. This is the unit (for the calculation) of any
greater or less quantity (of firewood). Thus weighing balance
and weights are commented upon. Then,

1 drona which is an dyamdna, a measure of royal

200 palas in the grains of
mdsha 1872 ,, 1

income.

public drona.
175 ,, 1 bhdjaniya, servants’ measure 162V2 , 1
antahpurabhdjaniya, harem measure.

Adhaka, prastha, and kudumba, are each Y of the one previously
mentioned.

16 dronas == 1 vdri. 20 ,,==1
kumbha. 10 kumbhas == 1 vaha.

Cubic measures shall be so made of dry and strong wood that
when filled with grains, the conically heaped-up portion of the

147
Kautilya's Arthashastra

grains standing on the mouth of the measure is equal to Y4th of the
quantity of the grains (so measured); or the measures may also be
so made that a quantity equal to the heaped-up portion can be
contained within (the measure).

But liquids shall always be measured level to the mouth of
the measure.

With regard to wine, flowers, fruits, bran, charcoal and
slaked lime, twice the quantity of the heaped-up portion (i.e., th
of the measure) shall be given in excess.

1% panas is the

a drona.

price of

% pana ,, an ddhaka.
6 mdshas ,, a prastha.
1 mdsha ,, a kudumba.

The price of similar liquid-measures is double the above.

20 panas is the
a set of counter-weights.

price of 6% panas ,, of a tuld (balance).
The Superintendent shall charge 4 mdshas for stamping
weights or measures. A fine of 27% panas shall be imposed for

using unstamped weights or measures.

Traders shall every day pay one kdkani to the Superintendent
towards the charge of stamping the weights and measures.

148
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Those who trade in clarified butter, shall give, (to purchasers)
1/32 part more as taptavydji (i.e., compensation for decrease in the
quantity of ghi owing to its liquid condition). Those who trade in
oil shall give 1/64 part more as taptavydji.

(While selling liquids, traders) shall give 1/50 part more as
mdnasrdva (i.e., compensation for diminution in the quantity
owing to its overflow or adhesion to the measuring can).

Half, one-fourth, and one-eighth parts of the measure,
kumbha, shall also be manufactured.

84 kudumbas of clarified butter are held

a wdraka of the same;
to be equal to

64 kudumbas of clarified butter are held make one wdraka of oil
(taila);andYa of a wdraka to be equal to is called ghatika, either of
ghi or of oil.

[Thus ends Chapter XIX, "Balance, Weights and Measures” in
Book II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fortieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XX. MEASUREMENT OF SPACE AND TIME.

THE Superintendent of lineal measure shall possess the
knowledge of measuring space and time.

atoms (paramdnavah) are

1 particle thrown off by the wheel of a chariot.

149
Kautilya's Arthashastra

equal to

8 particles are equal to 1 likshd.

8 likshds are equal to the middle of a yiika (louse) or a yiika of
medium size.

8 yiikas are equal to 1 yava (barley) of middle size.

1 angula (% of an English inch)
or the middlemost joint 8 yavas are equal to of the middle finger of
a man of medium size may be

taken to be equal to an angula. 4
angulas are equal to 1 dhanurgraha. 8 angulas are equal to 1
dhanurmushti. 12 angulas are equal to 1 vitasti, or 1
chhdydpaurusha. 14 angulas are equal to 1 sama, sala, pariraya,
or pada. 2 vitastis are equal to 1 aratni or 1 prdjdpatya hasta 2
vitastis plus 1 dhanurgraha arel hasta used in measuring balances
and cubic measures, equal to and pasture lands. 2 vitastis plus 1
dhanurmusti 1 kishku or 1 kamsa.

1 kishku according to sawyers
and blacksmiths and used 42 angulas are equal to in measuring the
grounds for the encampment of the

army, for forts and palaces. 54

angulas are equal to 1 hasta used in measuring timber forests.
84

1 vydma, used in measuring ropes and the depth of
angulas are equal to

digging, in terms of a man's
height. 4 aratnis are equal to 1 danda, 1 dhanus, 1 ndlika and 1
paurusha. 108 angulas are equal to 1 garhapatya dhanus (i.e., a
measure used by carpenters

called grihapati). This measure

is used in measuring
roads and fort-walls.

150
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The same (108 angulas) are
1 paurusha, a measure used in building
sacrificial altars.

equal to

6 kamsas or 192 angulas arel danda, used in measuring such lands
as are gifted to

equal to Brahmans.

10 dandas are equal to 1 rajju.

2 rajjus are equal to 1 paridesa (square measure).

3 rajjus are equal to 1 nivartana (square measure).
The same (3 rajjus) plus 2

dandas on one side only are 1 bdhu (arm).

equal to

1000 dhanus are equal to 1 goruta (sound of a cow).
4 gorutas are equal to 1 yojana.

Thus are the lineal and square measures dealt with.
Then with regard to the measures of time:---

(The divisions of time are) a truti, lava, nimesha, kdshthd,
kald, ndlikd, muhiirta, forenoon, afternoon, day, night, paksha,
month, ritu (season), ayana (solstice); samvatsara (year), and

yuga.

2 trutis are
equal to 1
lava. 2
lavas are
equal to 1
nimesha. 5

151
Kautilya's Arthashastra

nimeshas
are equal
tol
kdshthd.
30
kdshthds
are equal
to 1 kald.

1 ndlikd, or the time during which one
ddhaka of water passes 40 kalds are equal to out of a pot through an
aperture of the same diameter as that of a

wire of 4 angulas in length and made of 4
mdshas of gold. 2 ndlikas are equal to 1 muhirta. 15 muhiirtas are

equal to
1 day or 1 night.

Such a day and night happen in the months of Chaitra and
Asvayuja. Then after the period of six months it increases or
diminishes by three muhiirtas.

When the length of shadow is eight paurushas (96 angulas), it
is 1/18th part of the day.

When it is 6 paurushas (72 angulas), it is 1/14th part of the
day; when 4 paurushas, 1/8th part; when 2 paurushas, 1/6th part;
when 1 paurusha, Vath part; when it is 8 angulas, 3/10th part
(trayodasabhdgah); when 4 angulas, 3/8th part; and when no
shadow is cast, it is to be considered midday.

Likewise when the day declines, the same process in reverse
order shall be observed.

It is in the month of Ashddha that no shadow is cast in
midday. After Ashddha, during the six months from Srdvana

152
Kautilya's Arthashastra

upwards, the length of shadow successively increases by two
angulas and during the next six months from Mdgha upwards, it
successively decreases by two angulas.

Fifteen days and nights together make up one paksha. That
paksha during which the moon waxes is white (sukla) and that
paksha during which the moon wanes is bahula.

Two pakshas make one month (mdsa). Thirty days and nights
together make one work-a-month (prakarmamdsah). The same (30
days and nights) with an additional half a day makes one solar
month (saura).

The same (30) less by half a day makes one lunar month

(chandramdsa). Twenty-seven (days and nights) make a

sidereal month (nakshatramdsa). Once in thirty-two months

there comes one malamdsa profane month, i.e., an extra

month added to lunar year to harmonise it with
the solar. Once in thirty-five months there
comes a malamdsa for Asvavdhas.
Once in forty months there comes a malamdsa for hastivdhas.
Two months make one ritu (season). Srdvana and

proshthapada make the rainy season (varshd). Asvayuja and

153
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Kdrthika make the autumn (sarad). Mdrgasirsha and
Phausha make the winter (hemanta). Mdgha and Phalguna
make the dewy season (sisira). Chaitra and Vaisdkha make
the spring (vasanta). Jyeshthdmiiliya and Ashddha make the
summer (grishma). Seasons from sisira and upwards are the

summer-solstice (uttardyana), and (those)

from varshd and upwards are the winter solstice
(dakshindyana). Two solstices (ayanas) make one year
(samvatsara). Five years make one yuga. The sun
carries off (harati) 1/60th of a whole day every day and
thus makes one complete day in every two months

(ritau). Likewise the moon (falls behind by 1/60th of a

whole day every day and falls behind one day in every two
months). Thus in the middle of every third year, they (the sun and
the moon) make one adhimdsa, additional month, first in the
summer season and second at the end of five years.

[Thus ends Chapter XX, “Measurement of Space and Time” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-first chapter from the
beginning. ]

154
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XXI. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF TOLLS.

THE Superintendent of Tolls shall erect near the large gate of
the city both the tollhouse and its flag facing either the north or the
south. When merchants with their merchandise arrive at the
toll-gate, four or five collectors shall take down who the merchants
are, whence they come, what amount of merchandise they have
brought and where for the first time the sealmark
(abhijndnamudrd) has been made (on the merchandise).

Those whose merchandise has not been stamped with
sealmark shall pay twice the amount of toll. For counterfeit seal
they shall pay eight times the toll. If the sealmark is effaced or torn,
(the merchants in question) shall be compelled to stand in
ghatikdsthdna. When one kind of seal is used for another or when
one kind of merchandise has been otherwise named (ndmakrite),
the merchants shall pay a fine of 1% pands for each load
(sapddapanikam vahanam ddpayet).

The merchandise being placed near the flag of the toll-house,
the merchants shall declare its quantity and price, cry out thrice
"who will purchase this quantity of merchandise for this amount of
price,” and hand over the same to those who demand it (for that
price). When purchasers happen to bid for it, the enhanced amount
of the price together with the toll on the merchandise shall be paid
into the king's treasury. When under the fear of having to pay a
heavy toll, the quantity or the price of merchandise is lowered, the
excess shall be taken by the king or the merchants shall be made to
pay eight times the toll. The same punishment shall be imposed
when the price of the merchandise packed in bags is lowered by
showing an inferior sort as its sample or when valuable
merchandise is covered over with a layer of an inferior one.

When under the fear of bidders (enhancing the price), the
155
Kautilya's Arthashastra

price of any merchandise is increased beyond its proper value, the
king shall receive the enhanced amount or twice the amount of toll
on it. The same punishment or eight times the amount of toll shall
be imposed on the Superintendent of tolls if he conceals
(merchandise).

Hence commodities shall be sold only after they are precisely
weighed, measured, or numbered.

With regard to inferior commodities as well as those which
are to be let off free of toll, the amount of toll due shall be
determined after careful consideration.

Those merchants who pass beyond the flag of the toll-house
without paying the toll shall be fined eight times the amount of the
toll due from them.

Those who pass by to and from (the city) shall ascertain
(whether or not toll has been paid on any merchandise going along
the road.)

Commodities intended for marriages, or taken by a bride from
her parents’ house to her husband's (anvdyanam), or intended for
presentation, or taken for the purpose of sacrificial performance,
confinement of women, worship of gods, ceremony of tonsure,
investiture of sacred thread, gift of cows (goddna, made before
marriage), any religious rite, consecration ceremony (dikshd), and
other special ceremonials shall be let off free of toll.

Those who utter a lie shall be punished as thieves.

Those who smuggle a part of merchandise on which toll has
not been paid with that on which toll has been paid as well as those
who, with a view to smuggle with one pass a second portion of
merchandise, put it along with the stamped merchandise after

156
Kautilya's Arthashastra

breaking open the bag shall forfeit the smuggled quantity and pay
as much fine as is equal to the quantity so smuggled.

He who, falsely swearing by cowdung, smuggles
merchandise, shall be punished with the highest amercement.

When a person imports such forbidden articles as weapons
(sastra), mail armour, metals, chariots, precious stones, grains and
cattle, he shall not only be punished as laid down elsewhere, but
also be made to forfeit his merchandise. When any of such
commodities has been brought in for sale, they shall be sold, free of
toll far outside (the fort).

The officer in charge of boundaries (antapdla) shall receive a
pana-and-a-quarter as roadcess (vartani) on each load of
merchandise (panyavahanasya).

He shall levy a pana on a single-hoofed animal, half a pana
on each head of cattle, and a quarter on a minor quadruped.

He shall also receive a mdsha on a head-load of
merchandise.

He shall also make good whatever has been lost by merchants
(in the part of the country under his charge).

After carefully examining foreign commodities as to their
superior or inferior quality and stamping them with his seal, he
shall send the same to the superintendent of tolls.

Or he may send to the king a spy in the guise of a trader with
information as to the quantity and quality of the merchandise.
(Having received this information,) the king shall in turn send it to
the superintendent of tolls in view of exhibiting the king's
omniscient power. The superintendent shall tell the merchants (in

157
Kautilya's Arthashastra

question) that such and such a merchant has brought such and such
amount of superior or inferior merchandise, which none can
possibly hide, and that that information is due to the omniscient
power of the king.

For hiding inferior commodities, eight times the amount of
toll shall be imposed; and for hiding or concealing superior
commodities, they shall be wholly confiscated.

Whatever causes harm or is useless to the country shall be
shut out; and whatever is of immense good as well as seeds not
easily available shall be let in free of toll.

[Thus ends Chapter XXI, “The Superintendent of Tolls” in Book
II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-second chapter from the
beginning.)

CHAPTER XXII. REGULATION OF TOLL-DUES.

MERCHANDISE, external (bdhyam, i.e., arriving from
country parts), internal (¢bhyantaram, i.e., manufactured inside
forts), or foreign (dtithyani, i.e., imported from foreign countries)
shall all be liable to the payment of toll alike when exported
(nishkrdmya) and imported (pravésyam).

Imported commodities shall pay 1/5th of their value as toll.

Of flower, fruit, vegetables (sdka), roots (mula), bulbous
roots (kanda), pallikya (7), seeds, dried fish, and dried meat, the
superintendent shall receive 1/6th as toll.

158
Kautilya's Arthashastra

As regards conch-shells, diamonds, precious stones, pearls,
corals, and necklaces, experts acquainted with the time, cost, and
finish of the production of such articles shall fix the amount of toll.

Of fibrous garments (kshauma), cotton cloths (dukiila), silk
(krimitdna), mail armour (kankata), sulphuret of arsenic (haritdla),
red arsenic (manassild), vermilion (hingulaka), metals (I6ha), and
colouring ingredients (varnadhdtu); of sandal, brown sandal
(agaru), pungents (katuka), ferments (kinva), dress (dvarana), and
the like; of wine, ivory, skins, raw materials used in making fibrous
or cotton garments, carpets, curtains (prdvarana), and products
yielded by worms (krimijdta); and of wool and other products
yielded by goats and sheep, he shall receive 1/10th or 1/15th as toll.

Of cloths (vastra), quadrupeds, bipeds, threads, cotton,
scents, medicines, wood, bamboo, fibres (valkala), skins, and
clay-pots; of grains, oils, sugar (kshdra), salt, liquor (madya)
cooked rice and the like, he shall receive 1/20th or 1/25th as toll.

Gate-dues (dvdrddeya) shall be 1/5th of toll dues; this tax
may be remitted if circumstances necessitate such favour.
Commodities shall never be sold where they are grown or
manufactured.

When minerals and other commodities are purchased from
mines, a fine of 600 pands shall be imposed.

When flower or fruits are purchased from flower or fruit
gardens, a fine of 54 panas shall be imposed.

When vegetables, roots, bulbous roots are purchased from
vegetable gardens, a fine 51% panas shall be imposed.

When any kind of grass or grain is purchased from field, a
fine of 53 panas shall be imposed.

159
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Permanent) fines of 1 pana and 1V2 panas shall be levied on
agricultural produce (sitdtyayah).

Hence in accordance with the customs of countries or of
communities, the rate of toll shall be fixed on commodities, either
old or new; and fines shall be fixed in proportion to the gravity of
offences.

[Thus ends Chapter XXII, "Regulation of Toll-dues,” in Book II,
"The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the forty-third chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XXIII. SUPERINTENDENT OF WEAVING.

THE Superintendent of Weaving shall employ qualified
persons to manufacture threads (sdtra), coats (varma), cloths
(vastra), and ropes.

Widows, cripple women, girls, mendicant or ascetic women
(pravrajitd), women compelled to work in default of paying fines
(danddpratikdrinf), mothers of prostitutes, old women-servants of
the king, and prostitutes (devaddsi) who have ceased to attend
temples on service shall be employed to cut wool, fibre, cotton,
panicle (ila), hemp, and flax.

Wages shall be fixed according as the threads spun are fine,
coarse (sthiila, i.e., big) or of middle quality and in proportion to a
greater or less quantity manufactured, and in consideration of the
quantity of thread spun, those (who turn out a greater quantity)
shall be presented with oil and dried cakes of myrobalan fruits
(taildmalakodvartanaih).

160
Kautilya's Arthashastra

They may also be made to work on holidays (zithishu) by
payment of special rewards (prativdpaddnamdnaih).

Wages shall be cut short, if making allowance for the quality
of raw material, the quantity of the threads spun out is found to fall
short.

Weaving may also be done by those artisans who are
qualified to turn out a given amount of work in a given time and for
a fixed amount of wages.

The superintendent shall closely associate with the workmen.

Those who manufacture fibrous cloths, raiments, silk-cloths,
woollen cloths, and cotton fabrics shall be rewarded by
presentations such as scents, garlands of flowers, or any other
prizes of encouragement.

Various kinds of garments, blankets, and curtains
shall be manufactured.

Those who are acquainted with the work shall
manufacture mail armour.

Those women who do not stir out of their houses
(anishkdsinyah), those whose husbands are gone abroad, and those
who are cripple or girls may, when obliged to work for subsistence,
be provided with work (spinning out threads) in due courtesy
through the medium of maid-servants (of the weaving
establishment.)

Those women who can present themselves at the weaving
house shall at dawn be enabled to exchange their spinnings for
wages (bhdndavetanavinimayam). Only so much light as is enough

161
Kautilya's Arthashastra

to examine the threads shall be kept. If the superintendent looks at
the face of such women or talks about any other work, he shall be
punished with the first amercement. Delay in paying the wages
shall be punished with the middlemost amercement. Likewise
when wages are paid for work that is not completed.

She who, having received wages, does not turn out the work
shall have her thumb cut off.

Those who misappropriate, steal, or run away with, (the raw
material supplied to them) shall be similarly punished.

Weavers, when guilty, shall be fined out of their wages in
proportion to their offences.

The superintendent shall closely associate with those who
manufacture ropes and mail armour and shall carry on the
manufacture of straps (varatra) and other commodities.

He shall carry on the manufacture of ropes from threads and
fibres and of straps from cane and bamboo bark, with which beasts
for draught are trained or tethered.

[Thus ends Chapter XXIII, "The Superintendent of Weaving” in
Book II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-fourth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXIV. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
AGRICULTURE.

POSSESSED of the knowledge of the science of agriculture
162
Kautilya's Arthashastra

dealing with the plantation of bushes and trees
(krishitantragulmavrikshshdyurvedajiiah), or assisted by those
who are trained in such sciences, the superintendent of agriculture
shall in time collect the seeds of all kinds of grains, flowers, fruits,
vegetables, bulbous roots, roots, pdllikya (?), fibre-producing
plants, and cotton.

He shall employ slaves, labourers, and prisoners
(dandapratikartri) to sow the seeds on crown-lands which have
been often and satisfactorily ploughed.

The work of the above men shall not suffer on account of any
want in ploughs (karshanayantra) and other necessary instruments
or of bullocks. Nor shall there be any delay in procuring to them the
assistence of blacksmiths, carpenters, borers (medaka),
ropemakers, as well as those who catch snakes, and similar
persons.

Any loss due to the above persons shall be punished with a
fine equal to the loss.

The quantity of rain that falls in the country of jdngala is 16
dronas; half as much more in moist countries (anipdndmy); as to
the countries which are fit for agriculture (désavdpdnam);--13v2
dronas in the country of asmakas; 23 dronas in avanti; and an
immense quantity in western countries (apardntdndm), the borders
of the Himalayas, and the countries where water channels are made
use of in agriculture (kulydvdpdndm).

When one-third of the requisite quantity of rain falls both
during the commencement and closing months of the rainy season
and two-thirds in the middle, then the rainfall is (considered) very
even (sushumdripam).

163
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A forecast of such rainfall can be made by observing the
position, motion, and pregnancy (garbhdddna) of the Jupiter
(Brihaspati), the rise and set and motion of the Venus, and the
natural or unnatural aspect of the sun.

From the sun, the sprouting of the seeds can be inferred; from
(the position of) the Jupiter, the formation of grains (stambakarita)
can be inferred; and from the movements of the Venus, rainfall can
be inferred.

Three are the clouds that continuously rain for seven days;
eighty are they that pour minute drops; and sixty are they that
appear with the sunshine--this is termed rainfall. Where rain, free
from wind and unmingled with sunshine, falls so as to render three
turns of ploughing possible, there the reaping of good harvest is
certain.

Hence, i.e., according as the rainfall is more or less, the
superintendent shall sow the seeds which require either more or
less water.

Sdli (a kind of rice), vrihi (rice), kodrava (Paspalum
Scrobiculatum), tila (sesamum), priyangu (panic seeds), ddraka
(7), and varaka (Phraseolus Trilobus) are to be sown at the
commencement (pirvdvdpah) of the rainy season.

Mudga (Phraseolus Mungo), mdsha (Phraseolus Radiatus),
and saibya (7) are to be sown in the middle of the season.

Kusumbha (safflower), masira (Ervum Hirsutum), kuluttha
(Dolichos Uniflorus), yava (barley), godhiima (wheat), kaldya
(leguminus seeds), atasi (linseed), and sarshapa (mustard) are to
be sown last.

Or seeds may be sown according to the changes of the

164
Kautilya's Arthashastra

season.

Fields that are left unsown (vdpdtiriktam, i.e., owing to the
inadequacy of hands) may be brought under cultivation by
employing those who cultivate for half the share in the produce
(ardhasitikd); or those who live by their own physical exertion
(svaviryopajivinah) may cultivate such fields for 4th or 1/5th of
the produce grown; or they may pay (to the king) as much as they
can without entailing any hardship upon themselves (anavasitam
bhdgam), with the exception of their own private lands that are
difficult to cultivate.

Those who cultivate irrigating by manual labour
(hastaprdvartimam) shall pay 1/5th of the produce as water-rate
(udakabhdgam); by carrying water on shoulders
(skandhaprdvartimam) Yth of the produce; by water-lifts
(srotoyantraprdvartimam), Ysrd of the produce; and by raising
water from rivers, lakes, tanks, and wells
(nadisarastatdkakipodghdtam),%srd or Yith of the produce.

The superintendent shall grow wet crops (keddra),
winter-crops (haimana), or summer crops (graishmika) according
to the supply of workmen and water.

Rice-crops and the like are the best (jydshtha, i.e., to grow);
vegetables (shanda) are of intermediate nature; and sugarcane
crops (ikshu) are the worst (pratyavarah, i.e., very difficult to
grow), for they are subject to various evils and require much care
and expenditure to reap.

Lands that are beaten by foam (phendghdtah, i.e., banks of
rivers, etc.) are suitable for growing valliphala (pumpkin, gourd
and the like); lands that are frequently overflown by water
(parivdhdnta) for long pepper, grapes (mridvikd), and sugarcane;

165
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the vicinity of wells for vegetables and roots; low grounds
(hariniparyantdh) for green crops; and marginal furrows between
any two rows of crops are suitable for the plantation of fragrant
plants, medicinal herbs, cascus roots (ustnara), hira (7), beraka (7),
and pinddluka (lac) and the like.

Such medicinal herbs as grow in marshy grounds are to be
grown not only in grounds suitable for them, but also in pots
(sthdlyam).

The seeds of grains are to be exposed to mist and heat
(tushdrapdyanamushnam cha) for seven nights; the seeds of kosi
are treated similarly for three nights; the seeds of sugarcane and the
like (kdndabijdnam) are plastered at the cut end with the mixture of
honey, clarified butter, the fat of hogs, and cowdung; the seeds of
bulbous roots (kanda) with honey and clarified butter; cotton seeds
(asthibija) with cow-dung; and water pits at the root of trees are to
be burnt and manured with the bones and dung of cows on proper
occasions.

The sprouts of seeds, when grown, are to be manured with a
fresh haul of minute fishes and irrigated with the milk of snuhi
(Euphorbia Antiquorum).

Where there is the smoke caused by burning the essence of
cotton seeds and the slough of a snake, there snakes will not stay.

Always while sowing seeds, a handful of seeds bathed in
water with a piece of gold shall be sown first and the following
mantra recited:--

“Prajpatye Kasyapdya dévdya
Sada Sita medhyatdm dévi bijéshu

166
Kautilya's Arthashastra

dhanéshu cha. Chandavita hé."

“Salutation to God Prajdpati Kasyapa. Agriculture may
always flourish and the Goddess (may reside) in seeds and wealth.
Channdavata he."

Provisions shall be supplied to watchmen, slaves and
labourers in proportion to the amount of work done by them.

They shall be paid a pana-and-a-quarter per mensem. Artisans
shall be provided with wages and provision in proportion to the
amount of work done by them.

Those that are learned in the Vedas and those that are engaged
in making penance may take from the fields ripe flowers and fruits
for the purpose of worshipping their gods, and rice and barley for
the purpose of performing dgrayana, a sacrificial performance at
the commencement of harvest season, also those who live by
gleaning grains in fields may gather grains where grains had been
accumulated and removed from.

Grains and other crops shall be collected as often as they are
harvested. No wise man shall leave anything in the fields, nor even
chaff. Crops, when reaped, shall be heaped up in high piles or in the
form of turrets. The piles of crops shall not be kept close, nor shall
their tops be small or low. The threshing floors of different fields
shall be situated close to each other. Workmen in the fields shall
always have water but no fire.

[Thus ends Chapter XXIV, “The Superintendent of Agriculture” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-fifth chapter from the
beginning. ]

167
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XXV. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF LIQUOR.

BY employing such men as are acquainted with the
manufacture of liquor and ferments (kinva), the Superintendent of
Liquor shall carry on liquor-traffic not only in forts and country
parts, but also in camps.

In accordance with the requirements of demand and supply
(krayavikrayavasena) he may either centralize or decentralize the
sale of liquor.

A fine of 600 panas shall be imposed on all offenders other
than those who are manufacturers, purchasers, or sellers in
liquor-traffic.

Liquor shall not be taken out of villages, nor shall liquor
shops be close to each other.

Lest workmen spoil the work in hand, and Aryas violate their
decency and virtuous character, and lest firebrands commit
indiscreet acts, liquor shall be sold to persons of well known
character in such small quantities as one-fourth or half-a-kudumba,
one kudumba, half-a-prastha, or one prastha. Those who are well
known and of pure character may take liquor out of shop.

Or all may be compelled to drink liquor within the shops and
not allowed to stir out at once in view of detecting articles such as
sealed deposits, unsealed deposits, commodities given for repair,
stolen articles, and the like which the customer's may have
acquired by foul means. When they are found to possess gold and
other articles not their own, the superintendent shall contrive to
cause them to be arrested outside the shop. Likewise those who are
too extravagant or spend beyond their income shall be arrested.

168
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No fresh liquor other than bad liquor shall be sold below its
price. Bad liquor may be sold elsewhere or given to slaves or
workmen in lieu of wages; or it may form the drink of beasts for
draught or the subsistence of hogs.

Liquor shops shall contain many rooms provided with beds
and seats kept apart. The drinking room shall contain scents,
garlands of flowers, water, and other comfortable things suitable to
the varying seasons.

Spies stationed in the shops shall ascertain whether the
expenditure incurred by customers in the shop is ordinary or
extraordinary and also whether there are any strangers. They shall
also ascertain the value of the dress, ornaments, and gold of the
customers lying there under intoxication.

When customers under intoxication lose any of their things,
the merchants of the shop shall not only make good the loss, but
also pay an equivalent fine.

Merchants seated in half-closed rooms shall observe the
appearance of local and foreign customers who, in real or false
guise of Aryas lie down in intoxication along with their beautiful
mistresses.

Of various kinds of liquor such as medaka, prasanna, dsava,
arista, maireya, and madhu:--

Medaka is manufactured with one drona of water, half, an
ddaka of rice, and three prastha of kinva (ferment).

Twelve ddhakas of flour (pishta), five prasthas of kinva
(ferment), with the addition of spices (jdtisambhdra) together with
the bark and fruits of putrakd (a species of tree) constitute
prasannd.

169
Kautilya's Arthashastra

One-hundred palas of kapittha (Feronia Elephantum) 500
palas of phdnita (sugar), and one prastha of honey (madhu) form
dsava.

With an increase of one-quarter of the above ingredients, a
superior kind of dsava is manufactured; and when the same
ingredients are lessened to the extent of one-quarter each, it
becomes of an inferior quality.

The preparation of various kinds of arishta for various
diseases are to be learnt from physicians.

A sour gruel or decoction of the bark of meshasringi (a kind
of poison) mixed with jaggery (guda) and with the powder of long
pepper and black pepper or with the powder of triphala (1
Terminalia Chebula, 2 Terminalia Bellerica, and 3 Phyllanthus
Emblica) forms Maireya.

To all kinds of liquor mixed with jaggery, the powder of
triphala is always added.

The juice of grapes is termed madhu. Its own native place
(svadesa) is the commentary on such of its various forms as
kdpisdyana and hdrahiiraka.

One drona of either boiled or unboiled paste of mdsha
(Phraseolus Radiatus), three parts more of rice, and one karsha of
morata (Alangium Hexapetalum) and the like form kinva
(ferment).

In the manufacture of medaka and prasanna, five karshas of
the powder of (each of pdthd (Clypea Hermandifolio), lodhra
(Symplocos Racemosa), tejovati (Piper Chaba), eldvdluka
(Solanum Melongena) honey, the juice of grapes (madhurasa),
priyangu (panic seeds), ddruharidra (a species of turmeric) black

170
Kautilya's Arthashastra

pepper and long pepper are added as sambhdra, requisite spices.

The decoction of madhitka (Bassia Latifolia) mixed with
granulated sugar (katasarkard), when added to prasanna, gives it a
pleasing colour.

The requisite quantity of spices to be added to dsava is one
karshd of the powder of each of chocha (bark of cinnamon),
chitraka (Plumbago Zeylanica), vilanga, and gajapippali
(Scindapsus Officinalis), and two karshas of the powder of each of
kramuka (betel nut), madhiika (Bassia Latifolia), mustd (Cyprus
Rotundus), and lodhra (Symlocos Racemosa).

The addition of one-tenth of the above ingredients (i.e.
chocha, kramuka, etc.), is (termed) bijabandha.

The same ingredients as are added to prasannd are also added
to white liquor (svetasurd).

The liquor that is manufactured from mango fruits
(sahakdrasurd) may contain a greater proportion of mango essence
(rasottara), or of spices (bijottara). It is called mahdsura when it
contains sambhdra (spices as described above).

When a handful (antarnakho mushtih, i.e., so much as can be
held in the hand, the fingers being so bent that the nails cannot be
seen) of the powder of granulated sugar dissolved in the decoction
of moratd (Alangium Hexapetalum), paldsa (Butea Frondosa),
dartiira (Dattura Fastuosa), karanja (Robinia Mitis), meshasringa
(a kind of poison) and the bark of milky trees (kshiravriksha)
mixed with one-half of the paste formed by combining the powders
of lodhra (Symplocos Racemosa), chitraka (Plumbago Zeylanica),
vilanga, pdthd (clypea Hermandifolia), mustd (cyprus Rotundus),
kaldya (leguminous seeds), ddruharidra (Amonum

171
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Xanthorrhizon), indivara (blue lotus), satapushpa (Anethum
Sowa), apdmdrga (Achyranthes Aspera) saptaparna (Echites
Scholaris), and nimba (Nimba Melia) is added to (even) a kumbha
of liquor payable by the king, it renders it very pleasant. Five palas
of phdnita (sugar) are added to the above in order to increase its
flavour.

On special occasions (krityeshu), people (kutumbinah, i.e.,
families) shall be allowed to manufacture white liquor (svetasura),
arishta for use in diseases, and other kinds of liquor.

On the occasions of festivals, fairs (samdja), and pilgrimage,
right of manufacture of liquor for four days (chaturahassaurikah)
shall be allowed.

The Superintendent shall collect the daily fines
(daivasikamatyayam, i.e., license fees) from those who on these
occasions are permitted to manufacture liquor.

Women and children shall collect ‘sura,” and ‘kinva,’
“ferment.”

Those who deal with liquor other than that of the king shall
pay five percent as toll.

With regard to sura, medaka, arishta, wine, phaldmla (acid
drinks prepared from fruits), and dmlasidhu (spirit distilled from
molasses):--

Having ascertained the day's sale of the above kinds of liquor,
the difference of royal and public measures (mdnavydji), and the
excessive amount of sale proceeds realised thereby, the
Superintendent shall fix the amount of compensation (vaidharana)
due to the king (from local or foreign merchants for entailing loss
on the king's liquor traffic) and shall always adopt the best course.

172
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter XXV, "The Superintendent of Liquor” in Book
II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXVI. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
SLAUGHTER-HOUSE.

WHEN a person entraps, kills, or molests deer, bison, birds,
and fish which are declared to be under State protection or which
live in forests under State-protection (abhaydranya), he shall be
punished with the highest amercement.

Householders trespassing in forest preserves shall be
punished with the middlemost amercement.

When a person entraps, kills, or molests either fish or birds
that do not prey upon other animals, he shall be fined 263% panas;
and when he does the same to deer and other beasts, he shall be
fined twice as much.

Of beasts of prey that have been captured, the
Superintendent shall take one-sixth; of fish and birds (of similar
nature), he shall take one-tenth or more than one-tenth; and of deer
and other beasts (mrigapasu), one-tenth or more than one-tenth as
toll.

One-sixth of live animals such as birds and beasts shall be let
off in forests under State-protection.

Elephants, horses or animals having the form of a man, bull or

173
Kautilya's Arthashastra

an ass living in oceans as well as fish in tanks, lakes, channels and
rivers; and such game-birds as krauncha (a kind of heron),
utkrosaka (osprey), ddrytiha (a sort of cuckoo), hamsa (flamingo),
chakravdka (a brahmany duck), jivanjivaka (a kind of pheasant),
bhringardja  (Lanius  Malabaricus), chakora (partridge),
mattakokila (cuckoo), peacock, parrot, and maina (madanasdrika)
as well as other auspicious animals, whether birds or beasts, shall
be protected from all kinds of molestations.

Those who violate the above rule shall be punished with the first
amercement.

(Butchers) shall sell fresh and boneless flesh of beasts
(mrigapasu) just killed.

If they sell bony flesh, they shall give an equivalent
compensation (pratipdkam).

If there is any diminution in weight owing to the use of a false
balance, they shall give eight times the diminution.

Cattle such as a calf, a bull, or a milch cow
shall not be slaughtered.

He who slaughters or tortures them to death
shall be fined 50 panas.

The flesh of animals which have been killed outside the
slaughter-house (parisiinam), headless, legless and boneless flesh,
rotten flesh, and the flesh of animals which have suddenly died
shall not be sold. Otherwise a fine of 12 panas shall be imposed.

Cattle, wild beasts, elephants (vyala), and fish living in
forests under State protection shall, if they become of vicious

174
Kautilya's Arthashastra

nature, be entrapped and killed outside the forest preserve.

[Thus ends Chapter XXVI, "The Superintendent of
Slaughter-house” in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
forty-seventh chapter from the beginning. |

CHAPTER XXVII. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
PROSTITUTES.

THE Superintendent of Prostitutes shall employ (at the king's
court) on a salary of 1,000 panas (per annum) a prostitute (ganikd),
whether born or not born of a prostitute'’s family, and noted for her
beauty, youth, and accomplishments.

A rival prostitute (pratiganikd) on half the above salary
(kutumbdrdhéna) shall also be appointed.

Whenever such a prostitute goes abroad or dies, her daughter
or sister shall act for her and receive her property and salary. Or her
mother may substitute another prostitute. In the absence of any of
these, the king himself shall take the property.

With a view to add to the splendour of prostitutes holding the
royal umbrella, golden pitcher, and fan, and attending upon the
king seated on his royal litter, throne, or chariot, prostitutes shall be
classified as of first, middle and highest rank according to their
beauty and splendid jewellery; likewise their salary shall be fixed
by thousands.

She who has lost her beauty shall be appointed as a nurse
(mdtrikd).

175
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A prostitute shall pay 24,000 panas as ransom to regain her
liberty; and a prostitutes son 12,000 panas.

From the age of eight years, a prostitute shall hold musical
performance before the king.

Those prostitutes, female slaves, and old women who are
incapable of rendering any service in the form of enjoyment
(bhagnabhogdh) shall work in the storehouse or kitchen of the
king.

A prostitute who, putting herself under the protection of a
private person, ceases to attend the king's court shall pay a
pana-and-a-quarter per mensem (to the Government).

The superintendent shall determine the earnings, inheritance,
income (dya), expenditure, and future earnings (dyati) of every
prostitute.

He shall also check their extravagant expenditure.

When a prostitute puts her jewellery in the hands of any
person but her mother, she shall be fined 4% panas.

If she sells or mortgages her property (svapateyam), she
shall be fined 50% panas.

A prostitute shall be fined 24 panas for defamation; twice as
much for causing hurt; and 50% panas as well as 1¥2 panas for
cutting off the ear (of any person).

When a man has connection with a prostitute against her will
or with a prostitute girl (kumdri), he shall be punished with the
highest amercement. But when he has connection with a willing

176
Kautilya's Arthashastra

prostitute, (under age), he shall be punished with the first
amercement.

When a man keeps under confinement, or abducts, a
prostitute against her will, or disfigures her by causing hurt, he
shall be fined 1,000 panas or more rising up to twice the amount of
her ransom (nishkraya) according to the circumstances of the crime
and the position and the status of the prostitute (sthdnaviseshena).

When a man causes hurt to a prostitute appointed at the court
(praptddhikdram), he shall be fined thrice the amount of her
ransom.

When a man causes hurt to a prostitute's mother, to her young
daughter, or to a ripaddsi, he shall be punished with the highest
amercement.

In all cases of offences, punishment for offences committed
for the first time shall be the first amercement; twice as much for
offences committed for a second time; thrice as much for the third
time; and for offences committed for the fourth time, the king may
impose any punishment he likes.

When a prostitute does not yield her person to any one under
the orders of the king, she shall receive 1000 lashes with a whip or
pay a fine of 5,000 panas.

When having received the requisite amount of fees, a
prostitute dislikes to yield her person, she shall be fined twice the
amount of the fees.

When, in her own house, a prostitute deprives her paramour
of his enjoyment, she shall be fined eight times the amount of the
fees unless the paramour happens to be unassociable on account of
disease and personal defects.

177
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a prostitute murders her paramour, she shall be burnt
alive or thrown into water.

When a paramour steals the jewellery or money of, or
deceives to pay the fees due to, a prostitute, he shall be fined eight
times that amount.

Every prostitute shall supply information to the
superintendent as to the amount of her daily fees (bhoga), her
future income (dyati), and the paramour (under her influence).

The same rules shall apply to an actor, dancer, singer, player
on musical instruments, a buffoon (vdgjivana), a mimic player
(kustlava), rope-dancer (plavaka), a juggler (saubhika), a
wandering bard or herald (chdrana), pimps, and unchaste women.

When persons of the above description come from foreign
countries to hold their performances, they shall pay 5 panas as
license fee (prekshdvetana).

Every prostitute (ripdjivd) shall pay every month twice the
amount of a day's earning (bhogadvigunam) to the Government.

Those who teach prostitutes, female slaves, and actresses, arts
such as singing, playing on musical instruments, reading, dancing,
acting, writing, painting, playing on the instruments like vina, pipe,
and drum, reading the thoughts of others, manufacture of scents
and garlands, shampooing, and the art of attracting and captivating
the mind of others shall be endowed with maintenance from the
State.

They (the teachers) shall train the sons of prostitutes to be
chief actors (rangopajivi) on the stage.
The wives of actors and others of similar profession who have

178
Kautilya's Arthashastra

been taught various languages and the use of signals (sanja) shall,
along with their relatives, be made use of in detecting the wicked
and murdering or deluding foreign spies.

[Thus ends Chapter XX VII, "The Superintendent of Prostitutes” in
Book II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-eighth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF SHIPS.

THE Superintendent of Ships shall examine the accounts
relating to navigation not only on oceans and mouths of rivers, but
also on lakes natural or artificial, and rivers in the vicinity of
sthdnfya and other fortified cities.

Villages on seashores or on the banks of rivers and lakes
shall pay a fixed amount of tax (kliptam).

Fishermen shall give 1/6th of their haul as fees for fishing
license (naukdhdtakam).

Merchants shall pay the customary toll levied in port-towns.

Passengers arriving on board the king's ship shall pay the
requisite amount of sailing fees (ydtrdvetanam).

Those (who make use of the king's boats in) fishing out

conch-shells and pearls shall pay the requisite amount of hire
(Naukdhdtakam), or they may make use of their own boats.

179
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The duties of the superintendent of mines will explain those
of the superintendent of conch-shells and pearls.

The superintendent of ships shall strictly observe the customs
prevalent in commercial towns as well as the orders of the
superintendent of towns (pattana, port town).

Whenever a weatherbeaten ship arrives at a port-town, he
shall show fatherly kindness to it.

Vessels carrying on merchandise spoiled by water may either
be exempted from toll or may have their toll reduced to half and let
to sail when the time for setting sail approaches.

Ships that touch at harbours on their way may be requested
the payment of toll.
Pirate ships (himsrikd), vessels which are bound for the
country of an enemy, as well as those which have violated the
customs and rules in force in port towns shall be destroyed.

In those large rivers which cannot be forded even during the
winter and summer seasons, there shall be launched large boats
(mahdndvah) provided with a captain (sdsaka), a steersman
(niydmaka), and servants to hold the sickle and the ropes and to
pour out water.

Small boats shall be launched in those small rivers which
overflow during the rainy season.

Fording or crossing the rivers (without permission) shall be
prohibited lest traitors may cross them (and escape).

When a person fords or crosses a river outside the proper
place and in unusual times, he shall be punished with the first

180
Kautilya's Arthashastra

amercement.

When a man fords or crosses a river at the usual place and
time without permission, he shall be fined 263 panas.

Fishermen, carriers of firewood, grass, flowers, and fruits,
gardeners, vegetable-dealers, and herdsmen, persons pursuing
suspected criminals, messengers following other messengers going
in advance, servants engaged to carry things, provisions, and
orders to the army, those who use their own ferries, as well as those
who supply villages of marshy districts with seeds, necessaries of
life, commodities and other accessary things shall be exempted (to
cross rivers at any time and place).

Bréhmans, ascetics (pravrajita), children, the aged, the
afflicted, royal messengers, and pregnant women shall be provided
by the superintendent with free passes to cross rivers.

Foreign merchants who have often been visiting the country
as well as those who are well known to local merchants shall be
allowed to land in port-towns.

Any person who is abducting the wife or daughter of another,
one who is carrying off the wealth of another, a suspected person,
one who seems to be of perturbed appearance, one who has no
baggage, one who attempts to conceal, or evade the cognisance of
the valuable load in one's hand, one who has just put on a different
garb, one who has removed or renounced one's usual garb, one who
has just turned out an ascetic, one who pretends to be suffering
from disease, one who seems to be alarmed, one who is stealthily
carrying valuable things, or going on a secret mission, or carrying
weapons or explosives (agniyoga), one who holds poison in one's
hand, and one who has come from a long distance without a pass
shall all be arrested.

181
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A minor quadruped as well as a man carrying some load shall
pay one mdsha.

A head-load, a load carried on shoulders (kdyabhdrah), a
cow, and a horse shall each pay 2 mdshas.

A camel and a buffalo shall each pay 4 mdshas.

A small cart (laghuydna)S mdshas; and a cart (of medium
size) drawn by bulls (golingam) shall pay 6 mdshas and a big cart
(sakata) 7 mdshas.

A head-load of merchandise 4 mdsha; this explains other
kinds of loads. In big rivers, ferry-fees are double the above.
Villages near marshy places shall give (to the ferry-men) the
prescribed amount of food-stuff and wages.

In boundaries, ferry-men shall receive the toll, carriage-cess,
and road-cess. They shall also confiscate the property of the person
travelling without a pass. The Superintendent of Boats shall make
good the loss caused by the loss of the boat due to the heavy load,
sailing in improper time or place, want of ferry-men, or lack of
repair. Boats should be launched between the months of Ashddha,
the first seven days being omitted, and Kdrtika; the evidence of a
ferryman should be given and the daily income should be remitted.

[Thus ends Chapter XXVIII, “The Superintendent of Ships” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the forty-ninth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXIX. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF COWS.
182
Kautilya's Arthashastra

THE Superintendent of cows shall supervise (1) herds
maintained for wages (vétandpagrdhikam), (2) herds surrendered
for a fixed amount of dairy produce (karapratikara), (3) useless
and abandoned herds (bhagnotsrishtakam), (4) herds maintained
for a share in dairy produce (bhdgdnupravishtam), (5) classes of
herds (vrajaparyagram), (6) cattle that strayed (nashtam), (7)
cattle that are irrecoverably lost (vinashtam), and (8) the amassed
quantity of milk and clarified butter.

(1) When a cowherd, a buffalo-herdsman, a milker, a churner, and
a hunter (lubdhaka) fed by wages graze milch cows (dhenu) in
hundreds (satam satam)--for if they graze the herds for the profit of
milk and ghi, they will starve the calves to death,--that system of
rearing the cattle is termed ‘herds maintained for wages.’

(2) When a single person rears a hundred heads (ripasatam) made
up of equal numbers of each of aged cows, milch cows, pregnant
cows, heifers, and calves (vatsatari) and gives (to the owner) 8
vdrakas of clarified butter per annum, as well as the branded skin
(of dead cows if any), that system is called ‘herds surrendered for a
fixed amount of dairy produce.’

(3) When those who rear a hundred heads made up of equal
numbers of each of afflicted cattle, crippled cattle, cattle that
cannot be milked by any one but the accustomed person, cattle that
are not easily milked, and cattle that kill their own calves give in
return (to the owner) a share in dairy produce, it is termed ‘useless
and abandoned herd.’

(4) When under the fear of cattle-lifting enemies
(parachakrdtavibhaydt), cattle are kept under the care of the
superintendent, giving him 1/10th of the dairy produce for his
protection, it is termed "herds maintained for a share in dairy
produce.”

(5) When the superintendent classifies cattle as calves, steers,
tameable ones, draught oxen, bulls that are to be trained to yoke,
bulls kept for crossing cows, cattle that are fit only for the supply of

183
Kautilya's Arthashastra

flesh, buffaloes and draught buffaloes; female calves, female steer,
heifer, pregnant cows, milch cattle, barren cattle---either cows or
buffaloes; calves that are a month or two old as well as those which
are still younger; and when, as he ought to, he brands them all
inclusive of their calves of one or two months old along with those
stray cattle which have remained unclaimed in the herds for a
month or two; and when he registers the branded marks, natural
marks, colour and the distance from one horn to another of each of
the cattle, that system is known as ‘class of herds.’

(6) When an animal is carried off by thieves or finds itself into the
herds of others or strays unknown, it is called ‘lost.’

(7) When an animal is entangled in a quagmire or precipice or dies
of disease or of old age, or drowned in water: or when it is killed by
the fall of a tree or of river bank, or is beaten to death with a staff or
stone, or is struck by lightening (isdna), or is devoured by a tiger or
bitten by a cobra, or is carried off by a crocodile, or is involved in
the midst of a forest fire, it is termed as “irrecoverably lost.”

Cowherds shall endeavour to keep them away from such
dangers.

Whoever hurts or causes another to hurt, or steals or causes
another to steal a cow, should be slain.

When a person substitutes an animal (r#pa) bearing the royal
brand mark for a private one, he shall be punished with the first
amercement.

When a person recovers a local cattle from thieves, he shall
receive the promised reward (panitam riipam); and when a man
rescues a foreign cattle (from thieves), he shall receive half its
value.

Cowherds shall apply remedies to calves or aged cows or

184
Kautilya's Arthashastra

cows suffering from diseases.

They shall graze the herds in forests which are severally
allotted as pasture grounds for various seasons and from which
thieves, tigers and other molesting beasts are driven away by
hunters aided by their hounds.

With a view to scare out snakes and tigers and as a definite
means of knowing the whereabouts of herds, sounding bells shall
be attached to (the neck of) timid cattle.

Cowherds shall allow their cattle to enter into such rivers or
lakes as are of equal depth all round, broad, and free from mire and
crocodiles, and shall protect them from dangers under such
circumstances.

Whenever an animal is caught hold of by a thief, a tiger, a
snake, or a crocodile, or when it is too infirm owing to age or
disease, they shall make a report of it; otherwise they shall be
compelled to make good the loss.

When an animal dies a natural death, they shall surrender the
skin with the brand mark, if it is a cow or a buffalo; the skin
together with the ear (karnalakshanam) if it is a goat or sheep; the
tail with the skin containing the brand mark, if it is an ass or a
camel; the skin, if it is a young one; besides the above, (they shall
also restore) the fat (vast), bile, marrow (sndyu), teeth, hoofs,
horns, and bones.

They (the cowherds) may sell either fresh flesh or dried flesh.

They shall give buttermilk as drink to dogs and hogs, and
reserve a little (buttermilk) in a bronze vessel to prepare their own
dish: they may also make use of coagulated milk or cheese (kildta)
to render their oilcakes relishing (ghdnapinydka-kledartha).

185
Kautilya's Arthashastra

He who sells his cow (from among the herds) shall pay (to the
king) Vath ripa (value of the cow).

During the rainy, autumnal, and the first part of winter
(hemanta) seasons, they shall milk the cattle both the times
(morning and evening); and during the latter part of winter and the
whole of the spring and summer seasons, they shall milk only once
(i.e., only in the morning). The cowherd who milks a cow a second
time during these seasons shall have his thumb cut off.

If he allows the time of milking to lapse, he shall forfeit the
profit thereof (i.e., the milk).

The same rule shall hold good in case of negligence of the
opportune moment for putting a string through the nose of a bull
and other animals, and for taming or training them to the yoke.

One drona of a cow's milk will, when churned, yield one
prastha of butter; the same quantity of a buffalo's milk will yield
1/7th prastha more; and the same quantity of milk of goats and
sheep will produce V2 prastha more.

In all kinds of milk, the exact quantity of butter shall be
ascertained by churning; for increase in the supply of milk and
butter depends on the nature of the soil and the quantity and quality
of fodder and water.

When a person causes a bull attached to a herd to fight with
another bull, he shall be punished with the first amercement; when
a bull is injured (under such circumstances), he shall be punished
with the highest amercement.

Cattle shall be grouped in herds of ten each of similar colour,
while they are being grazed.

186
Kautilya's Arthashastra

According to the protective strength of the cowherds the
capacity of the cattle to go far and wide to graze, cowherds shall
take their cattle either far or near.

Once in six months, sheep and other animals shall be shorn
of their wool.

The same rules shall apply to herds of horses, asses, camels,
and hogs.

For bulls which are provided with nose-rings, and which
equal horses in speed and in carrying loads, half a bhdra of
meadow grass (yavasa), twice the above quantity of ordinary grass
(trina), one tuld (100 palas) of oil cakes, 10 ddhakas of bran, 5
palas of salt mukhalavanam), one kudumba of oil for rubbing over
the nose (nasya), 1 prastha of drink (pdna), one tuld of flesh, 1
ddhaka of curis, 1 drona of barley or of cooked mdsha (Phraseolus
Radiatus), 1 drona of milk; or half an ddhaka of surd (liquor), 1
prastha of oil or ghi (sneha) 10 palas of sugar or jaggery, 1 pala of
the fruit of sringibera (ginger) may be substituted for milk

(pratipdna).

The same commodities less by one quarter each will form the
diet for mules, cows, and asses; twice the quantity of the above
things for buffaloes and camels.

Draught oxen and cows, supplying milk (payah), shall be
provided with subsistence in proportion to the duration of time the
oxen are kept at work, and the quantity of milk which the cows

supply.

All cattle shall be supplied with
abundance of fodder and water.

187
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Thus the manner of rearing herds of
cattle has been dealt with.

A herd of 100 heads of asses and mules shall contain 5 male
animals; that of goats and sheep ten; and a herd of ten heads of
either cows or buffaloes shall contain four male animals.

[Thus ends Chapter XXIX, "The Superintendent of Cows” in Book
II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fiftieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXX. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF HORSES.

THE Superintendent of Horses shall register the breed, age,
colour, marks, group or classes, and the native place of horses, and
classify as (1) those that are kept in sale-house for sale
(panydgdrikam), (2) those that are recently purchased
(krayopdgatam), (3) those that have been captured in wars
(dhavalabdham), (4) those that are of local breed (djdram), (5)
those that are sent thither for help (sdhdyyakdgatam), (6) those that
are mortgaged (panasthitam), and (7) those that are temporarily
kept in stables (ydvatkdlikam).

He shall make a report (to the king) of such animals as are
inauspicious, crippled, or diseased.

Every horseman shall know how to make an economic use of
whatever he has received from the king's treasury and storehouse.

The superintendent shall have a stable constructed as spacious
as required by the number of horses to be kept therein twice as
broad as the length of a horse, with four doors facing the four
quarters, with its central floor suited for the rolling of horses, with

188
Kautilya's Arthashastra

projected front provided with wooden seats at the entrance, and
containing monkeys, peacocks, red spotted deer (prishata),
mangoose, partridges (chakora), parrots, and maina birds (sdrika);
the room for every horse shall be four times as broad or long as the
length of a horse, with its central floor paved with smoothened
wooden planks, with separate compartments for fodder
(khddanakoshthakam), with passages for the removal of urine and
dung, and with a door facing either the north or the east. The
distinction of quarters (digvibhdga) may be made as a matter of
fact or relatively to the situation of the building.

Steeds, stallions and colts shall be separately kept.

A steed that has just given birth to a colt shall be provided for
the first three days with a drink of 1 prastha of clarified butter;
afterwards it shall be fed with a prastha of flour (saktu) and made
to drink oil mixed with medicine for ten nights; after that time, it
shall have cooked grains, meadow grass, and other things suited to
the season of the day.

A colt, ten days old, shall be given a kudumba of flour mixed
with Vath kudumba of clarified butter, and 1 prastha of milk till it
becomes six months old; then the above rations shall be increased
half as much during each succeeding month, with the addition of 1
prastha of barley till it becomes three years old, then one drona of
barley till it grows four years old; at the age of four or five, it
attains its full development and becomes serviceable.

The face (mukha) of the best horse measures 32 angulas; its
length is 5 times its face; its shank is 20 angulas; and its height is 4
times its shank.

Horses of medium and lower sizes fall short of the above
measurement by two and three angulas respectively.

189
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The circumference (parindha) of the best horse measures 100
angulas, and horses of medium and lower sizes fall short of the
above measurement by five parts (panchabhdgdvaram).

For the best horse (the diet shall be) 2 dronas of any one of the
grains, rice (sdli, vrihi,) barley, panic seeds (priyangu) soaked or
cooked, cooked mudga (Phraseolus Munga) or mdsha (Phraseolus
Radiatus); one prastha of oil, 5 palas of salt, 50 palas of flesh, 1
ddhaka of broth (rasa) or 2 ddhakas of curd, 5 palas of sugar
(kshdra), to make their diet relishing, 1 prastha of sird, liquor, or 2
prasthas of milk.

The same quantity of drink shall be specially given to those
horses which are tired of long journey or of carrying loads.

One prastha of oil for giving enema (anuvdsana), 1 kudumba
of oil for rubbing over the nose, 1,000 palas of meadow grass,
twice as much of ordinary grass (zrina); and hay-stalk or grass shall

be spread over an area of 6 aratnis.

The same quantity of rations less by one-quarter for horses of
medium and lower size.

A draught horse or stallion of medium size shall be given the
same quantity as the best horse; and similar horses of lower size
shall receive the same quantity as a horse of medium size.

Steeds and pdrasamas shall have one quarter less of rations.
Half of the rations given to steeds shall be given to colts.

Thus is the distribution of ration dealt with.

Those who cook the food of horses, grooms, and veterinary

190
Kautilya's Arthashastra

surgeons shall have a share in the rations (pratisvddabhajah).

Stallions which are incapacitated owing to old age, disease or
hardships of war, and, being therefore rendered unfit for use in war
live only to consume food shall in the interests of citizens and
country people be allowed to cross steeds.

The breed of Kdmbhoja, Sindhu, Arartta, and Vandyu
countries are the best; those of Bdhlika, Pdpeya, Sauvira, and
Taitala, are of middle quality; and the rest ordinary (avardh).

These three sorts may be trained either for war or for riding
according as they are furious (tzkshna), mild (bhadra), or stupid or
slow (manda).

The regular training of a horse is its preparation for war
(sdnndhyam karma).

Circular movement (valgana), slow movement (nichairgata),
jumping (langhana), gallop (dhorana), and response to signals
(ndroshtra) are the several forms of riding (aupavdhya).

Aupavenuka, vardhmdnaka, yamaka, dlidhapluta, vrithatta
and rrivachdli are the varieties of circular movement (valgana).

The same kind of movements with the head and ear kept erect
are called slow movements.

These are performed in sixteen ways:---
Prakirnaka, prakirnottara, nishanna, pdrsvdnuvritta,
drmimdrga, sarabhakridita, sarabhapluta, tritdla, bdhydnuvritta,

panchapdni, simhdyata, svddhiita, klishta, sldghita, brimbhita,
pushpdbhikirna.

191
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Jumping like a monkey (kapipluta), jumping like a frog
(bhekapluta), sudden jump (ekapluta), jumping with one leg
(ekapddapluta), leaping like a cuckoo (kokilasamchdri), dashing
with its breast almost touching the ground (urasya), and leaping
like a crane (bakasamchari) are the several forms of jumping.

Flying like a vulture (kdnka), dashing like a water-duck
(vdrikdnaka), running like a peacock (mdyiira) halt the speed of a
peacock (ardhmdyiira), dashing like a mangoose (ndkula), half the
speed of a mangoose (ardha-ndkula), running like a hog (vdrdha)
and half the speed of a hog (ardha-vdrdha) are the several forms of
gallop.

Movement following a signal is termed ndroshtra.

Six, nine, and twelve yojanas (a day) are the distances (to be
traversed) by carriage-horses.

Five, eight, and ten yojanas are the distances (to be traversed)
by riding horses (prishthavdhya).

Trotting according to its strength (vikrama), trotting with
good breathing (bhadrdsvdsa), and pacing with a load on its back
are the three kinds of trot.

Trotting according to strength (vikrama), trot combined with
circular movement (valgita), ordinary trot (upakantha),
middlemost speed (upajava), and ordinary speed are also the
several kinds of trot (dhdra).

Qualified teachers shall give instructions as to the
manufacture of proper ropes with which to tether the horses.
Charioteers shall see to the manufacture of necessary war
accoutrements of horses.

192
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Veterinary surgeons shall apply requisite remedies against
undue growth or diminution in the body of horses and also change
the diet of horses according to changes in seasons.

Those who move the horses (sitragrdhaka), those whose
business is to tether them in stables, those who supply
meadow-grass, those who cook the grains for the horses, those who
keep watch in the stables, those who groom them and those who
apply remedies against poison shall satisfactorily discharge their
specified duties and shall, in default of it, forfeit their daily wages.

Those who take out for the purpose of riding such horses as
are kept inside (the stables) either for the purpose of waving lights
(nirdjana) or for medical treatment shall be fined 12 panas.

When, owing to defects in medicine or carelessness in the
treatment, the disease (from which a horse is suffering) becomes
intense, a fine of twice the cost of the treatment shall be imposed;
and when, owing to defects in medicine, or not administering it, the
result becomes quite the reverse, a fine equal to the value of the
animal (patramuilya) shall be imposed.

The same rule shall apply to the treatment of cows, buffaloes,
goats, and sheep.

Horses shall be washed, bedaubed with sandal powder, and
garlanded twice a day. On new moon days sacrifice to Bhiitas, and
on full moon days the chanting of auspicious hymns shall be
performed. Not only on the ninth day of the month of Asvayuja, but
also both at the commencement and close of journeys (ydtra) as
well as in the time of disease shall a priest wave lights invoking
blessings on the horses.

[Thus ends Chapter XXX, "The Superintendent of Horses" in Book
193
Kautilya's Arthashastra

II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-first chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXXI. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
ELEPHANTS.

THE Superintendent of elephants shall take proper steps to
protect elephant-forests and supervise the operations with regard to
the standing or lying in stables of elephants, male, female, or
young, when they are tired after training, and examine the
proportional quantity of rations and grass, the extent of training
given to them, their accoutrements and ornaments, as well as the
work of elephant-doctors, of trainers of elephants in warlike feats,
and of grooms, such as drivers, binders and others.

There shall be constructed an elephant stable twice as broad
and twice as high as the length (dydma) of an elephant, with
separate apartments for female elephants, with projected entrance
(sapragrivdm), with posts called kumdri, and with its door facing
either the east or the north.

The space in front of the smooth posts (to which elephants are
tied) shall form a square, one side of which is equal to the length of
an elephant and shall be paved with smooth wooden planks and
provided with holes for the removal of urine and dung.

The space where an elephant lies down shall be as broad as
the length of an elephant and provided with a flat form raised to
half the height of an elephant for leaning on.

Elephants serviceable in war or for riding shall be kept inside

194
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the fort; and those that are still being tamed or are of bad temper
shall be kept outside.

The first and the seventh of the eight divisions of the day are
the two bathing times of elephants; the time subsequent to those
two periods is for their food; forenoon is the time for their exercise;
afternoon is the time for drink; two (out of eight) parts of the night
are the time for sleep; one-third of the night is spent in taking
wakeful rest.

The summer is the season to capture elephants.
That which is 20 years old shall be captured.

Young elephants (bikka), infatuated elephants (mugdha),
elephants without tusks, diseased elephants, elephants which
suckle their young ones (dhenukd), and female elephants (hastinf)
shall not be captured.

(That which is) seven aratnis in height, nine aratnis in length,
ten aratnis in circumference and is (as can be inferred from such
measurement), 40 years old, is the best.

That which is 30 years old is of middle class; and that which
is 25 years old is of the lowest class.

The diet (for the last two classes) shall be lessened by
one-quarter according to the class.

The rations for an elephant (of seven aratnis in height) shall
be 1 drona of rice, V2 ddhaka of oil, 3 prasthas of ghi, 10 palas of
salt, 50 palas of flesh, 1 ddhaka of broth (rasa) or twice the
quantity (i.e., 2 ddhakas) of curd; in order to render the dish
tasteful, 10 palas of sugar (kshdra), 1 ddhaka of liquor, or twice the

195
Kautilya's Arthashastra

quantity of milk (payah);1 prastha of oil for smearing over the
body, 1/8 prastha (of the same) for the head and for keeping a light
in the stables; 2 bhdras of meadow grass, 2% bhdras of ordinary
grass (sashpa), and 2V2 bhdras of dry grass and any quantity of
stalks of various pulses (kadankara).

An elephant in rut (atyardla) and of § aratnis in height shall
have equal rations with that of 7 aratnis in height.

The rest of 6 or 5 aratnis in height shall be provided with
rations proportional to their size.

A young elephant (bikka) captured for the mere purpose of
sporting with it shall be fed with milk and meadow grass.

That which is blood-red (samjdtalohita), that which is
fleshed, that which has its sides evenly grown (samaliptapakshd),
that which has its girths full or equal (samakakshyd), that whose
flesh is evenly spread, that which is of even surface on its back
(samatalpatala) and that which is of uneven surface (jdradronikd)
are the several kinds of physical splendour of elephants.

Suitably to the seasons as well as to their physical spendour,
elephants of sharp or slow sense (bhadra and mandra) as well as
elephants possessed of the characteristics of other beasts shall be
trained and taught suitable work.

[Thus ends Chapter XXXI, “The Superintendent of Elephants” in
Book II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-second chapter from the
beginning. ]

196
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XXXII. TRAINING OF ELEPHANTS.

ELEPHANTS are classified into four kinds in accordance
with the training they are given: that which is tameable (damya),
that which is trained for war (sdnndhya), that which is trained for
riding (aupavdhya), and rogue elephants (vydla).

Those which are tameable fall under five groups: that which
suffers a man to sit on its withers (skandhagata), that which allows
itself to be tethered to a post (stambhagata), that which can be
taken to water (vdrigata), that which lies in pits (apapdtagata), and
that which is attached to its herd (yithagata).

All these elephants shall be treated with as much care as a
young elephant (bikka).

Military training is of seven kinds: Drill (upasthdna), turning
(samvartana), advancing (samydna), trampling down and killing
(vadhdvadha), fighting with other elephants (hastiyuddha),
assailing forts and cities (ndgardyanam), and warfare.

Binding the elephants with girths (kakshydkarma), putting
on collars (graiveyakakarma), and making them work in company
with their herds (yidthakarma) are the first steps (upa-vichara) of
the above training.

Elephants trained for riding fall under seven groups: that
which suffers a man to mount over it when in company with
another elephant (kunjaropavdhya), that which suffers riding when
led by a warlike elephant (sdnndhyopavdhya), that which is taught
trotting (dhorana), that which is taught various kinds of
movements (ddhdnagatika), that which can be made to move by
using a staff (yashtyupavdhya), that which can be made to move by
using an iron hook (totropavdhya), that which can be made to
move without whips (suddhopavdhya), and that which is of help in

197
Kautilya's Arthashastra

hunting.

Autumnal work (sdradakarma), mean or rough work
(hinakarma), and training to respond to signals are the first steps
for the above training.

Rogue elephants can be trained only in one way. The only
means to keep them under control is punishment. It has a
suspicious aversion to work, is obstinate, of perverse nature,
unsteady, willful, or of infatuated temper under the influence of
rut.

Rogue elephants whose training proves a failure may be
purely roguish (suddha), clever in roguery (suvrata), perverse
(vishama), or possessed of all kinds of vice.

The form of fetters and other necessary means to keep them
under control shall be ascertained from the doctor of elephants.

Tetherposts (dldna), collars, girths, bridles, legchains, frontal
fetters are the several kinds of binding instruments.

A hook, a bamboo staff, and machines (yantra) are
instruments.

Necklaces such as vaijavanti and kshurapramdla, and litter
and housings are the ornaments of elephants.

Mail-armour (varma), clubs (totra), arrow-bags, and
machines are war-accoutrements.

Elephant doctors, trainers, expert riders, as well as those who
groom them, those who prepare their food, those who procure grass
for them, those who tether them to posts, those who sweep elephant

198
Kautilya's Arthashastra

stables, and those who keep watch in the stables at night, are some
of the persons that have to attend to the needs of elephants.

Elephant doctors, watchmen, sweepers, cooks and others
shall receive (from the storehouse,) 1 prastha of cooked rice, a
handful of oil, land 2 palas of sugar and of salt. Excepting the
doctors, others shall also receive 10 palas of flesh.

Elephant doctors shall apply necessary medicines to
elephants which, while making a journey, happen to suffer from
disease, overwork, rut, or old age.

Accumulation of dirt in stables, failure to supply grass,
causing an elephant to lie down on hard and unprepared ground,
striking on vital parts of its body, permission to a stranger to ride
over it, untimely riding, leading it to water through impassable
places, and allowing it to enter into thick forests are offences
punishable with fines. Such fines shall be deducted from the
rations and wages due to the offenders.

During the period of Chdturmdsya (the months of July,
August, September and October) and at the time when two seasons
meet, waving of lights shall be performed thrice. Also on
new-moon and full-moon days, commanders shall perform
sacrifices to Bhiitas for the safety of elephants.

Leaving as much as is equal to twice the circumference of the
tusk near its root, the rest of the tusks shall be cut off once in 22
years in the case of elephants born in countries irrigated by rivers
(nadija), and once in 5 years in the case of mountain elephants.

[Thus ends Chapter XXXII, “The Training of Elephants” in Book
II, “The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-third chapter from the

199
Kautilya's Arthashastra

beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
CHARIOTS; THE SUPERINTENDENT OF INFANTRY
AND THE DUTY OF THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.

THE functions of the Superintendent of horses will explain
those of the Superintendent of chariots.

The Superintendent of chariots shall attend to the construction
of chariots.

The best chariot shall measure 10 purushas in height (,i.e.,
120 angulas), and 12 purushas in width. After this model, 7 more
chariots with width decreasing by one purusha successively down
to a chariot of 6 purushas in width shall be constructed. He shall
also construct chariots of gods (devaratha), festal chariots
(pushyaratha), battle chariots (sdngrdmika), travelling chariots
(pdriydnika), chariots used in assailing an enemy's strong-holds
(parapurabhiydnika), and training chariots.

He shall also examine the efficiency in the training of troops
in shooting arrows, in hurling clubs and cudgels, in wearing mail
armour, in equipment, in charioteering, in fighting seated on a
chariot, and in controlling chariot horses.

He shall also attend to the accounts of provision and wages
paid to those who are either permanently or temporarily employed
(to prepare chariots and other things). Also he shall take steps to
maintain the employed contented and happy by adequate reward
(vogyarakshanushthdnam), and ascertain the distance of roads.

200
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The same rules shall apply to the superintendent of infantry.

The latter shall know the exact strength or weakness of
hereditary troops (mmaula), hired troops (bhrita), the corporate body
of troops (sreni), as well as that of the army of friendly or
unfriendly kings and of wild tribes.

He shall be thoroughly familiar with the nature of fighting in
low grounds, of open battle, of fraudulent attack, of fighting under
the cover of entrenchment (khanakayuddha), or from heights
(dkdsayuddha), and of fighting during the day and night, besides
the drill necessary for such warfare.

He shall also know the fitness or unfitness of troops on
emergent occasions.

With an eye to the position which the entire army
(chaturangabala) trained in the skillful handling of all kinds of
weapons and in leading elephants, horses, and chariots have
occupied and to the emergent call for which they ought to be ready,
the commander-in-chief shall be so capable as to order either
advance or retreat (dyogamayogam cha).

He shall also know what kind of ground is more advantageous
to his own army, what time is more favourable, what the strength of
the enemy is, how to sow dissension in an enemy's army of united
mind, how to collect his own scattered forces, how to scatter the
compact body of an enemy's army, how to assail a fortress, and
when to make a general advance.

Being ever mindful of the discipline which his army has to
maintain not merely in camping and marching, but in the thick of
battle, he shall designate the regiments (vyiha) by the names of
trumpets, boards, banners, or flags.

201
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter XXXIII, "The Superintendent of Chariots, the
Superintendent of Infantry, and the Duties of the
Commander-in-Chief " in Book II, "The Duties of Government
Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
fifty-fourth chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXXIV. THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
PASSPORTS.

THE Superintendent of Passports shall issue passes at the rate
of a masha per pass. Whoever is provided with a pass shall be at
liberty to enter into, or go out of, the country. Whoever, being a
native of the country enters into or goes out of the country without
a pass shall be fined 12 panas. He shall be punished with the first
amercement for producing a false pass. A foreigner guilty of the
same offence shall be punished with the highest amercement.

The superintendent of pasture lands shall examine passes.

Pasture grounds shall be opened between any two dangerous
places.
Valleys shall be cleared from the fear of thieves, elephants,
and other beasts.

In barren tracts of the country, there shall be constructed not
only tanks, buildings for shelter, and wells, but also flower gardens
and fruit gardens.

Hunters with their hounds shall reconnoitre forests. At the
approach of thieves or enemies, they shall so hide themselves by
ascending trees or mountains as to escape from the thieves, and

202
Kautilya's Arthashastra

blow conch-shells or beat drums. As to the movements of enemies
or wild tribes, they may send information by flying the pigeons of
royal household with passes (mudrd) or causing fire and smoke at
successive distances.

It shall be his duty to protect timber and elephant forests, to
keep roads in good repair, to arrest thieves, to secure the safety of
mercantile traffic, to protect cows, and to conduct the transaction
of the people.

[Thus ends Chapter XXXIV, "The Superintendent of Passports,
and the Superintendent of Pasture Lands,” in Book II, "The Duties
of Government Superintendents,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of the fifty-fifth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XXXV. THE DUTY OF
REVENUE-COLLECTORS; SPIES IN THE GUISE OF
HOUSEHOLDERS, MERCHANTS AND ASCETICS.

HAVING divided the kingdom (janapada) into four districts,
and having also subdivided the villages (grdma) as of first, middle
and lowest rank, he shall bring them under one or another of the
following heads:---Villages that are exempted from taxation
(parihdraka); those that supply soldiers (dyudhiya); those that pay
their taxes in the form of grains, cattle, gold (hiranya), or raw
material (kupya); and those that supply free labour (vishti), and
dairy produce in lieu of taxes (karapratikara).

It is the duty of Gopa, village accountant, to attend to the
accounts of five or ten villages as ordered by the
Collector-General.

203
Kautilya's Arthashastra

By setting up boundaries to villages, by numbering plots of
grounds as cultivated, uncultivated, plains, wet lands, gardens,
vegetable gardens, fences (vdta), forests, altars, temples of gods,
irrigation works, cremation grounds, feeding houses (sattra),
places where water is freely supplied to travellers (prapd), places
of pilgrimage, pasture grounds and roads, and thereby fixing the
boundaries of various villages, of fields, of forests, and of roads, he
shall register gifts, sales, charities, and remission of taxes
regarding fields.

Also having numbered the houses as taxpaying or
non-taxpaying, he shall not only register the total number of the
inhabitants of all the four castes in each village, but also keep an
account of the exact number of cultivators, cow-herds, merchants,
artizans, labourers, slaves, and biped and quadruped animals,
fixing at the same time the amount of gold, free labour, toll, and
fines that can be collected from it (each house).

He shall also keep an account of the number of young and old
men that reside in each house, their history (charitra), occupation
(djiva), income (dya), and expenditure (vyaya).

Likewise Sthdnika, district officer, shall attend to the
accounts of one quarter of the kingdom.

In those places which are under the jurisdiction of Gopa and
Sthdnika, commissioners (prodeshtdrah) specially deputed by the
Collector-general shall not only inspect the work done and the
means employed by the village and district officers, but also collect
the special religious tax known as bali (balipragraham kuryuh).

Spies under the disguise of householders (grihapatika,
cultivators) who shall be deputed by the collector-general for
espionage shall ascertain the validity of the accounts (of the village
and district officers) regarding the fields, houses and families of

204
Kautilya's Arthashastra

each village---the area and output of produce regarding fields, right
of ownership and remission of taxes with regard to houses, and the
caste and profession regarding families.

They shall also ascertain the total number of men and beasts
(janghdgra) as well as the amount of income and expenditure of
each family.

They shall also find out the causes of emigration and
immigration of persons of migratory habit, the arrival and
departure of men and women of condemnable (anarthya)
character, as well as the movements of (foreign) spies.

Likewise spies under the guise of merchants shall ascertain
the quantity and price of the royal merchandise such as minerals, or
products of gardens, forests, and fields or manufactured articles.

As regards foreign merchandise of superior or inferior quality
arriving thither by land or by water, they shall ascertain the amount
of toll, road-cess, conveyance-cess, military cess, ferry-fare, and
one-sixth portion (paid or payable by the merchants), the charges
incurred by them for their own subsistence, and for the
accommodation of their merchandise in warehouse (panydgdra).

Similarly spies under the guise of ascetics shall, as ordered by
the Collector-general, gather information as to the proceedings,
honest or dishonest, of cultivators, cow-herds, merchants, and
heads of Government departments.

In places where altars are situated or where four roads meet,
in ancient ruins, in the vicinity of tanks, rivers, bathing places, in
places of pilgrimage and hermitage, and in desert tracts,
mountains, and thick grown forests, spies under the guise of old
and notorious thieves with their student bands shall ascertain the

205
Kautilya's Arthashastra

causes of arrival and departure, and halt of thieves, enemies, and
persons of undue bravery.

The Collector-general shall thus energetically attend to the
affairs of the kingdom. Also his subordinates constituting his
various establishments of espionage shall along with their
colleagues and followers attend to their duties likewise.

[Thus ends Chapter XXXV, "The Duty of revenue collectors; spies
under the guise of house-holders, merchants, and ascetics,” in
Book II, "The Duties of Government Superintendents” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XXXVI. THE DUTY OF A CITY
SUPERINTENDENT.

LIKE the Collector-general, the Officer in charge of the
Capital City (Ndgaraka) shall look to the affairs of the capital.

A Gopa shall keep the accounts of ten households, twenty
households, or forty households. He shall not only know the caste,
gotra, the name, and occupation of both men and women in those
households, but also ascertain their income and expenditure.

Likewise, the officer known as Sthdnika shall attend to the
accounts of the four quarters of the capital.

Managers of charitable institutions shall send information (to
Gopa or Sthdnika) as to any heretics (Pdshanda) and travellers
arriving to reside therein. They shall allow ascetics and men
learned in the Vedas to reside in such places only when those

206
Kautilya's Arthashastra

persons are known to be of reliable character.

Artisans and other handicraftsmen may, on their own
responsibility, allow others of their own profession to reside where
they carry on their own work (i.e., in their own houses).

Similarly merchants may on their own responsibility allow
other merchants to reside where they themselves carry on their
mercantile work (i.e., their own houses or shops).

They (the merchants) shall make a report of those who sell
any merchandise in forbidden place or time, as well as of those
who are in possession of any merchandise other than their own.

Vintners, sellers of cooked flesh and cooked rice as well as
prostitutes may allow any other person to reside with them only
when that person is well-known to them.

They (vintners, etc.) shall make a report of spendthrifts and
fool-hardy persons who engage themselves in risky undertakings.

Any physician who undertakes to treat in secret a patient
suffering from ulcer or excess of unwholesome food or drink, as
well as the master of the house (wherein such treatment is
attempted) shall be innocent only when they (the physician and the
master of the house) make a report of the same to either Gopa or
Sthdnika; otherwise both of them shall be equally guilty with the
sufferer.

Masters of houses shall make a report of strangers arriving at,
or departing from their houses; otherwise they shall be guilty of the
offence (theft, etc.) committed during that night. Even during safe
nights (i.e, nights when no theft, etc., seems to have been
committed), they shall be fined 3 panas (for not making such a
report).

207
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Wayfarers going along a high road or by a foot path shall
catch hold of any person whom they find to be suffering from a
wound or ulcer, or possessed of destructive instruments, or tired of
carrying a heavy load, or timidly avoiding the presence of others,
or indulging in too much sleep, or fatigued from a long journey, or
who appears to be a stranger to the place in localities such as inside
or outside the capital, temples of gods, places of pilgrimage, or
burial grounds.

(Spies) shall also make a search for suspicious persons in the
interior of deserted houses, in the workshops or houses of vintners
and sellers of cooked rice and flesh, in gambling houses, and in the
abode of heretics.

Kindling of fire shall be prohibited during the two
middlemost parts of day-time divided into four equal parts during
the summer. A fine of 1/8th of a pana shall be imposed for kindling
fire at such a time.

Masters of houses may carry on cooking operations outside
their houses.

(If a house-owner is not found to have ready with him) five
water-pots (pancha ghatindm), a kumbha, a drona, a ladder, an
axe, a winnowing basket, a hook (such as is used to drive an
elephant), pincers, (kachagrdhini), and a leather bag (driti), he
shall be fined Y4th of a pana.

They shall also remove thatched roofs. Those who work by
fire (blacksmiths) shall all together live in a single locality.

Each houseowner shall ever be present (at night) at the door
of his own house.

208
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Vessels filled with water shall be kept in thousands in a row
without confusion not only in big streets and at places where four
roads meet but also in front of the royal buildings
(rajaprigraheshu).

Any house-owner who does not run to give his help in
extinguishing the fire of whatever is burning shall be fined 12
panas; and a renter (avakrayi, i.e., one who has occupied a house
for rent) not running to extinguish fire shall be fined 6 panas.

Whoever carelessly sets fire (to a house) shall be fined 54
panas; but he who intentionally sets fire (to a house) shall be
thrown into fire.

Whoever throws dirt in the street shall be punished with a fine
of 1/8th of a pana; whoever causes mire or water to collect in the
street shall be fined Yth of a pana; whoever commits the above
offences in the king's road (rdjamdrga) shall be punished with
double the above fines.

Whoever excretes faeces in places of pilgrimage, reservoirs
of water, temples, and royal buildings shall be punished with fines
rising from one pana and upwards in the order of the offences; but
when such excretions are due to the use of medicine or to disease
no punishment shall be imposed.

Whoever throws inside the city the carcass of animals such as
a cat, dog, mangoose, and a snake shall be fined 3 panas; of
animals such as an ass, a camel, a mule, and cattle shall be fined 6
panas; and human corpse shall be punished with a fine of 50 panas.

When a dead body is taken out of a city through a gate other
than the usual or prescribed one or through a path other than the
prescribed path, the first amercement shall be imposed; and those
who guard the gates (through which the dead body is taken out)

209
Kautilya's Arthashastra

shall be fined 200 panas.

When a dead body is interred or cremated beyond the burial
or cremation grounds, a fine of 12 panas shall be imposed.

The interval between six ndlikas (2 2/5 hours) after the fall of
night and six ndlikas before the dawn shall be the period when a
trumpet shall be sounded prohibiting the movement of the people.

The trumpet having been sounded, whoever moves in the
vicinity of royal buildings during the first or the last ydma (3 hours
7) of the period shall be punished with a fine of one pana and a
quarter; and during the middlemost ydmas, with double the above
fine; and whoever moves outside (the royal buildings or the fort)
shall be punished with four times the above fine.

Whoever is arrested in suspicious places or as the perpetrator
of a criminal act shall be examined.

Whoever moves in the vicinity of royal buildings or ascends
the defensive fortifications of the capital shall be punished with the
middlemost amercement.

Those who go out at night in order to attend to the work of
midwifery or medical treatment, or to carry off a dead body to the
cremation or burial grounds, or those who go out with a lamp in
hand at night, as well as those who go out to visit the officer in
charge of the city, or to find out the cause of a trumpet sound
(turyapreksha), or to extinguish the outbreak of fire or under the
authority of a pass shall not be arrested.

During the nights of free movement (chdrardtrishu) those
who move out under disguise, those who stir out though forbidden
(pravarjitah), as well as those who move with clubs and other
weapons in hand shall be punished in proportion to the gravity of

210
Kautilya's Arthashastra

their guilt.

Those watchmen who stop whomever they ought not to stop,
or do not stop whomever they ought to stop shall be punished with
twice the amount of fine levied for untimely movement.

When a watchman has carnal connection with a slave woman,
he shall be punished with the first amercement; with a free woman
middlemost amercement; with a woman arrested for untimely
movement, the highest amercement; and a woman of high birth
(kulastrf), he shall be put to death.

When the officer in charge of the city (ndgaraka) does not
make a report (to the king) of whatever nocturnal nuisance of
animate or inanimate nature (chetandchetana) has occurred, or
when he shows carelessness (in the discharge of his duty), he shall
be punished in proportion to the gravity of his crime.

He shall make a daily inspection of reservoirs of water, of
roads, of the hidden passage for going out of the city, of forts,
fortwalls, and other defensive works. He shall also keep in his safe
custody of whatever things he comes across as lost, forgotten or
left behind by others.

On the days to which the birth star of the king is assigned, as
well as on full moon days, such prisoners as are young, old,
diseased, or helpless (andtha) shall be let out from the jail
(bandhandgdra); or those who are of charitable disposition or who
have made any agreement with the prisoners may liberate them by
paying an adequate ransom.

Once in a day or once in five nights, jails may be emptied of
prisoners in consideration of the work they have done, or of
whipping inflicted upon them, or of an adequate ransom paid by

211
Kautilya's Arthashastra

them in gold.

Whenever a new country is conquered, when an heir apparent
is installed on the throne, or when a prince is born to the king,
prisoners are usually set free.

[Thus ends Chapter XXXVI, “The Duty of a City Superintendent”
in Book II, “The Duties of government Superintendents,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-seventh chapter from the
beginning. With this ends the Second Book “The Duties of
Government Superintendents” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 51-185.

212
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book III, "Concerning Law"

CHAPTER I. DETERMINATION OF FORMS OF
AGREEMENT; DETERMINATION OF LEGAL DISPUTES.

IN the cities of Sangrahana, Dronamukha, and Sthiniya, and
at places where districts meet, three members acquainted with
Sacred Law (dharmasthas) and three ministers of the king
(amdtyas) shall carry on the administration of Justice.

(Valid and Invalid Transactions.)

They shall hold as void agreements (vyavahdra) entered into
in seclusion, inside the houses, in the dead of night, in forests, in
secret, or with fraud.

The proposer and the accessory shall be punished with the
first amercement [A fine ranging from 48 to 96 panas is called first
amercement; from 200 to 500 panas, the middlemost; and from
500 to 1,000 panas the highest amercement. See Chap. XVII, Book
III]; the witnesses (srotri = voluntary hearers) shall each be
punished with half of the above fine; and accepters shall suffer the
loss they may have sustained.

But agreements entered into within the hearing of others, as
well as those not otherwise condemnable shall be valid.

Those agreements which relate to the division of inheritance,
sealed or unsealed deposits, or marriage; or those in which are
concerned women who are either afflicted with disease or who do

213
Kautilya's Arthashastra

not stir out; as well as those entered into by persons who are not
known to be of unsound mind shall be valid though they might be
entered into inside houses.

Transactions relating to robbery, duel, marriage, or the
execution of the king's order, as well as agreements entered into by
persons who usually do their business during the first part of the
night shall be valid though they might be done at night.

With regard to those persons who live most part of their life in
forests, whether as merchants, cowherds, hermits, hunters, or spies,
their agreements though entered into in forests shall be valid.

If fraudulent agreements, only such shall be valid as are
entered into by spies.

Agreements entered into by members of any association
among themselves shall be valid though entered into in private.

Such agreements (i.e., those entered into in seclusion, etc.)
except as detailed above shall be void.

So also agreements entered into by dependent or unauthorised
persons, such as a father's mother, a son, a father having a son, an
outcast brother, the youngest brother of a family of undivided
interests, a wife having her husband or son, a slave, a hired
labourer, any person who is too young or too old to carry on
business, a convict (abhisasta), a cripple, or an afflicted person,
shall not be valid. But it would be otherwise if he were authorised.

Even agreements entered into by an authorised person shall
be void if he was at the time (of making the agreements) under
provocation, anxiety, or intoxication, or if he was a lunatic or a
haunted person.

214
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In all these cases, the proposer, his accessory, and witnesses
shall each be punished as specified above.

But such agreements as are entered into in person by any one
with others of his own community in suitable place and time are
valid provided the circumstances, the nature, the description, and
the qualities of the case are credible.

Such agreements with the exception of orders
(Adesa=probably a bill of exchange) and hypothecations may be
binding though entered into by a third person. Thus the
determination of the forms of agreement.

(The Trial.)

The year, the season, the month, the fortnight (paksha), the
date, the nature and place of the deed, the amount of the debt as
well as the country, the residence, the caste, the gotra, the name
and occupation of both the plaintiff and the defendant both of
whom must be fit to sue and defend (kritasamarthdvasthayoh),
having been registered first, the statements of the parties shall be
taken down in such order as is required by the case. These
statements shall then be thoroughly scrutinised.

(The offence of Parokta.)

Leaving out the question at issue, either of the parties takes
resort to another; his previous statement is not consistent with his
subsequent one; he insists on the necessity of considering the
opinion of a third person, though it is not worthy of any such
consideration; having commenced to answer the question at issue,
he breaks off at once, even though he is ordered to continue; he
introduces questions other than those specified by himself; he
withdraws his own statement; he does not accept what his own

215
Kautilya's Arthashastra

witnesses have deposed to; and he holds secret conversation with
his witnesses where he ought not to do so.

These constitute the offence of Parokta.
(Punishment for Parokta.)

Fine for parokta is five times the amount (paroktadandah
panchabandah).

Fine for self assertion (svayamvddi = asserting without
evidence) is ten times the amount (dasabandha.)

(Payments for Witnesses.)

Fees for witnesses (purushabhritih) shall cover 1/8th of the
amount (astdnga). Provision proportional to the amount sued for
may also be made for the expenses incurred by witnesses in their
journey. The defeated party shall pay these two kinds of costs.

(Countersuits.)

In cases other than duel, robbery, as well as disputes among
merchants or trade-guilds, the defendant shall file no countercase
against the plaintiff. Nor can there be a countercase for the
defendant.

(Adjournments.)

The plaintiff shall (‘rejoin’) reply soon after the defendant
has answered the questions at issue. Else he shall be guilty of
parokta, for the plaintiff knows the determining factors of the case.
But the defendant does not do so. The defendant may be allowed
three or seven nights to prepare his defence. If he is not ready with
his defence within that time, he shall be punished with a fine

216
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ranging from 3 to 12 panas. If he does not answer even after three
fortnights, he shall be fined for parokta, and the plaintiff shall
recover out of the defendant's property the amount of the case. But
if the plaintiff sues for a mere return of gratitude (pratyupakarana),
then no (decree shall be passed).

The same punishment shall be meted out to such of the
defendants as fail in their defence.

If the plaintiff fails to prove his case, he shall (also) be guilty
of parokta. If he fails to substantiate his case against a dead or
diseased defendant, he shall pay a fine and perform the (funeral)
ceremonies of the defendant, as determined by the witnesses. If he
proves his case, he may be permitted to take possession of the
property hypothecated to him.

But if he is not a Brdhman, he may, on his failure to prove his
case, be caused to perform such ceremonials as drive out demons
(rakshoghna rakshitakam.)

* In virtue of his power to uphold the observance of the
respective duties of the four castes and of the four divisions of
religious life, and in virtue of his power to guard

against the violation of the Dharmas, the king is the
fountain of justice (dharmapravartaka.)

* Sacred law (Dharma), evidence (Vyavahdra), history (Charitra),
and edicts of kings (Rdjasdsana) are the four legs of Law. Of these
four in order, the later is superior to the one previously named.

* Dharma is eternal truth holding its sway over the world;
Vyavahdra, evidence, is in witnesses; Charitra, history, is to be
found in the tradition (sangraha), of the people; and the order of
kings is what is called sdsana.

* As the duty of a king consists in protecting his subjects with
justice, its observance leads him to heaven. He who does not

217
Kautilya's Arthashastra

protect his people or upsets the social order wields his royal sceptre
(danda) in vain.

* It is power and power (danda) alone which, only when exercised
by the king with impartiality and in proportion to guilt either over
his son or his enemy, maintains both this world and the next.

* The king who administers justice in accordance with sacred law
(Dharma), evidence (vyavahdra), history (samsthd) and edicts of
kings (Nydya) which is the fourth will be able to conquer the whole
world bounded by the four quarters (Chaturantdm mahim).

* Whenever there is disagreement between history and sacred law
or between evidence and sacred law, then the matter shall be settled
in accordance with sacred law.

* But whenever sacred law (sdstra) is conflict with rational law
(Dharmanydya=kings' law), then reason shall be held
authoritative; for there the original text (on which the sacred law
has been based) is not available.

* Self-assertion (svayamvdda) on the part of either of the parties
has often been found faulty. Examination (anuyoga), honesty
(drjava), evidence (hetu) and asseveration by oath
(sapatha)---these alone can enable a man to win his cause.

* Whenever by means of the deposition of witnesses, the
statements of either of the parties are found contradictory, and
whenever the cause of either of the parties is found through the
king's spies to be false, then the decree shall be passed against that

party.

[Thus ends Chapter 1, “Determination of forms of Agreement;
Determination of Legal Disputes” in Book 111, “Concerning Law,”
of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the fifty-eighth chapter from
the beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. CONCERNING MARRIAGE. THE DUTY OF
MARRIAGE, THE PROPERTY OF A WOMAN, AND
COMPENSATIONS FOR REMARRIAGE.

218
Kautilya's Arthashastra

MARRIAGE precedes the other calls of life (vyavahdra.) The
giving in marriage of a maiden well-adorned is called
Brdhma-marriage. The joint-performance of sacred duties (by a
man and a woman) is known as prdjdpatya marriage.

(The giving in marriage of a maiden) for a couple of cows is
called Arsha. (The giving in marriage of a maiden) to an officiating
priest in a sacrifice is called Daiva. The voluntary union of a
maiden with her lover is called Gdndharva. Giving a maiden after
receiving plenty of wealth (silka) is termed Asura. The abduction
of a maiden is called Rdkshasa. The abduction of a maiden while
she is asleep and in intoxication is called Paisdcha marraige.

Of these, the first four are ancestral customs of old and are
valid on their being approved of by the father. The rest are to be
sanctioned by both the father and the mother; for it is they that
receive the money (silka) paid by the bridegroom for their
daughter. In case of the absence by death of either the father or the
mother, the survivor will receive the silka. If both of them are
dead, the maiden herself shall receive it. Any kind of marriage is
approvable, provided it pleases all those (that are concerned in it.)

(Property of Women.)

Means of subsistence (vritti) or jewellery (dbadhya)
constitutes what is called the property of a woman. Means of
subsistence valued at above two thousand shall be endowed (on her
name). There is no limit to jewellery. It is no guilt for the wife to
make use of this property in maintaining her son, her
daughter-in-law or herself whenever her absent husband has made
no provision for her maintenance. In calamities, disease and
famine, in warding off dangers and in charitable acts, the husband,
too, may make use of this property. Neither shall there be any
complaint against the enjoyment of this property by mutual

219
Kautilya's Arthashastra

consent by a couple who have brought forth a twin. Nor shall there
be any complaint if this property has been enjoyed for three years
by those who are wedded in accordance with the customs of the
first four kinds of marriage. But the enjoyment of this property in
the cases of Gdndharva and Asura marriages shall be liable to be
restored together with interest on it. In the case of such marriages
as are called Rdkshasa and Paisacha, the use of this property shall
be dealt with as theft. Thus the duty of marriage is dealt with.

On the death of her husband a woman, desirous to lead a pious
life, shall at once receive not only her endowment and jewellery
(sthdpydbharanam), but also the balance of silka due to her. If
both of these two things are not actually in her possession, though
nominally given to her, she shall at once receive both of them
together with interest (on their value.) If she is desirous of a second
marriage (kutumbakdma), she shall be given on the occasion of her
remarriage (nivesakdle) whatever either her father-in-law or her
husband or both had given to her. The time at which women can
remarry shall be explained in connection with the subject of long
sojourn of husbands.

If a widow marries any man other than of her father-in-law's
selection (svasuraprdtilo-myenanivishtd), she shall forfeit
whatever had been given to her by her father-in-law and her
husband.

The kinsmen (gndtis) of a woman shall return to her whatever
property of her own she had placed in their custody. Whoever
justly takes a woman under his protection shall equally protect her
property. No woman shall succeed in her attempt to establish her
title to the property of her husband.

If she lives a pious life, she may enjoy it (dharmakdmd
bhunjita). No woman with a son or sons shall be at liberty to make
free use of her own property (stridhana); for that property of hers

220
Kautilya's Arthashastra

her sons shall receive.

If a woman attempts to take possession of her own property
under the plea of maintaining her sons, she shall be made to endow
it in their name. If a woman has many male children, then she shall
conserve her own property in the same condition as she had
received from her husband. Even that property which has been
given her with full powers of enjoyment and disposal she shall
endow in the name of her sons.

A barren widow who is faithful to the bed of her dead
husband may, under the protection of her teacher, enjoy her
property as long as she lives: for it is to ward off calamities that
women are endowed with property. On her death, her property
shall pass into the hands of her kinsmen (ddydda). If the husband is
alive and the wife is dead, then her sons and daughters shall divide
her property among themselves. If there are no sons, her daughters
shall have it. In their absence her husband shall take that amount of
money (stlka) which he had given her, and her relatives shall
retake whatever in the shape of gift or dowry they had presented
her. Thus the determination of the property of a woman is dealt
with.

(Re-marriage of Males.)

If a woman either brings forth no (live) children, or has no
male issue, or is barren, her husband shall wait for eight years,
(before marrying another). If she bears only a dead child, he has to
wait for ten years. If she brings forth only females, he has to wait
for twelve years. Then if he is desirous to have sons, he may marry
another. In case of violating this rule, he shall be made to pay her
not only sulka, her property (stridhana) and an adequate monetary
compensation (ddhivedanikamartham), but also a fine of 24 panas
to the Government. Having given the necessary amount of sulka

221
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and property (stridhana) even to those women who have not
received such things on the occasion of their marriage with him,
and also having given his wives the proportionate compensation
and an adequate subsistence (vritti), he may marry any number of
women; for women are created for the sake of sons. If many or all
of them are at the same time in menses, he shall lie with that
woman among them, whom he married earlier or who has a living
son. In case of his concealing the fact of her being in menses or
neglecting to lie with any of them after her menses, he shall pay a
fine of 96 panas. Of women who either have sons or are pious or
barren, or bring forth only a dead child or are beyond the age of
menstruation, none shall be associated with against her liking. If a
man has no inclination, he may not lie with his wife who is either
afflicted with leprosy or is a lunatic. But if a woman is desirous of
having sons, she may lie with men suffering from such disease.

* If a husband either is of bad character or is long gone abroad
or has become a traitor to his king or is likely to endanger the life of
his wife or has fallen from his caste or has lost virility, he may be
abandoned by his wife.

[Thus ends Chapter II, “The Duty of Marriage, the Property of a
Woman, and Compensation for Remarriage,” in Book III,
“Concerning Law,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
fifty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. THE DUTY OF A WIFE; MAINTENANCE
OF A WOMAN; CRUELTY TO WOMEN; ENMITY
BETWEEN HUSBAND AND WIFE; A WIFE's
TRANSGRESSION; HER KINDNESS TO ANOTHER; AND
FORBIDDEN TRANSACTIONS.

222
Kautilya's Arthashastra

WOMEN, when twelve years old, attain their majority
(prdptavyavahdra) and men when sixteen years old. If after
attaining their majority, they prove disobedient to lawful authority
(asusrishdydm), women shall be fined 15 panas and men, twice the
amount.

(Maintenance of a woman.)

A woman who has a right to claim maintenance for an
unlimited period of time shall be given as much food and clothing
(grdsacchddana) as is necessary for her or more than is necessary
in proportion to the income of the maintainer
(yatha-purushaparivdpam vd). If the period (for which such things
are to be given to her) is limited, then a certain amount of money
fixed in proportion to the income of the maintainer shall be given to
her; so also if she has not been given her sulka, property, and
compensation (due to her for allowing her husband to remarry). If
after parting with her husband, she places herself under the
protection of any one belonging to her father-in-law’s family
(svasrakula), or if she begins to live independently, then her
husband shall not be sued for (for her maintenance). Thus the
determination of maintenance is dealt with.

(Cruelty to women.)

Women of refractive nature shall be taught manners by using
such general expressions as “Thou, half naked; thou, fully naked;
thou, cripple; thou, fatherless; thou, motherless, (nagne vinagne
nyange pitrke matrke vinagne ityanirdesena vinayagrahanant). Or
three beats either with a bamboo-bark or with a rope or with the
palm of the hand may be given on her hips. Violation of the above
rules shall be liable to half the punishment levied for defamation
and criminal hurt. The same kind of punishment shall be meted out
to a woman who, moved with jealousy or hatred, shows cruelty to

223
Kautilya's Arthashastra

her husband. Punishments for engaging in sports at the door of, or
outside her husband's house shall be as dealt with elsewhere. Thus
cruelty to women is dealt with.

(Enmity between husband and wife.)

A woman, who hates her husband, who has passed the period
of seven turns of her menses, and who loves another shall
immediately return to her husband both the endowment and
jewellery she has received from him, and allow him to lie down
with another woman. A man, hating his wife, shall allow her to
take shelter in the house of a mendicant woman, or of her lawful
guardians or of her kinsmen. If a man falsely accuses his wife of
adultery with one of her or his kinsmen or with a spy--an
accusation which can only be proved by eyewitnesses
(drishtilinge)--or falsely accuses her of her intention to deprive him
of her company, he shall pay a fine of 12 paras. A woman, hating
her husband, can not dissolve her marriage with him against his
will. Nor can a man dissolve his marriage with his wife against her
will. But from mutual enmity, divorce may be obtained
(parasparam dveshdnmokshah). If a man, apprehending danger
from his wife desires divorce (mokshamichhet), he shall return to
her whatever she was given (on the occasion of her marriage). If a
woman, under the apprehension of danger from her husband,
desires divorce, she shall forfeit her claim to her property;
marriages contracted in accordance with the customs of the first
four kinds of marriages cannot be dissolved.

(Transgression.)

If a woman engages herself in amorous sports, or drinking in
the face of an order to the contrary, she shall be fined 3 panas. She
shall pay a fine of 6 panas for going out at day time to sports or to
see a woman or spectacles. She shall pay a fine of 12 panas if she

224
Kautilya's Arthashastra

goes out to see another man or for sports. For the same offences
committed at night, the fines shall be doubled. If a woman abducts
another woman while the latter is asleep or under intoxication
(suptamatta-pravrajane), or if she drags her husband as far as the
door of the house, she shall be fined 12 panas. If a woman leaves
her house at night, she shall pay double the above fine. If a man and
a woman make signs to each other with a view to sensual
enjoyment, or carry on secret conversation (for the same purpose),
the woman shall pay a fine of 24 panas, and the man, double the
amount. A woman, holding out her hair, the tie of her dress round
her loins, her teeth or her nails, shall pay the first amercement, and
a man, doing the same, twice the first amercement.

For holding conversation in suspicious places, whips may be
substituted for fines. In the centre of the village, an outcaste person
(chanddla) may whip such women five times on each of the sides
of their body. She may get rid of being whipped by paying a pana
for each whip (panikam vd praharam mokshayet). Thus
transgression is dealt with.

(Forbidden transactions.)

With regard to a man and a woman who, though forbidden to
carry on any mutual transaction, help each other, the woman shall
be fined 12, 24 and 54 panas respectively according as the help
consists of (i) small things, of (ii) heavy things and (iii) of gold or
gold-coin (hiranyasuvarnayoh); and the man, at double the above
rates. With regard to similar transaction between a man and a
woman who cannot mix with each other (agamvayoh), half of the
above punishment shall be levied. Similar punishment shall be
meted out for any forbidden transaction with any men. Thus
forbidden transactions are dealt with.

* Treason, transgression and wandering at will shall deprive a

225
Kautilya's Arthashastra

woman of her claim not only to (i) stridhana, some form of
subsistence of above 2,000 panas and jewellery,

(ii) and dhita, compensation she may have obtained for allowing
her husband to marry another woman, but also (iii) to sulka, money
which her parents may have received from her husband.

[Thus ends Chapter III, “The Duty of a Wife; Maintenance of a
Woman; Enmity between Husband and Wife; a Wife's
Transgression, and Forbidden Transactions” in the section
“Concerning Marriage,” in Book III, “Concerning Law” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the sixtieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER IV. VAGRANCY, ELOPEMENT AND SHORT
AND LONG SOJOURNMENTS.

IF under any other excuse than danger, a woman gets out of
her husband's house, she shall be fined 6 panas. If she gets out
against the order (of her husband) to the contrary, she shall be fined
12 panas. If she goes beyond her neighbouring house
(prativesagrihatigatdyah), she shall be fined 6 panas. If she allows
into her house her neighbour, takes into her house the alms of any
mendicant, or the merchandise of any merchant, she shall be fined
12 panas. If she deals as above though expressly forbidden, she
shall be punished with the first amercement. If she goes out beyond
the surrounding houses (parigrihdtigatdyam), she shall be fined 24
panas. If under any other excuse than danger, she takes into her
house the wife of another man, she shall be fined 100 panas. But
she will not be guilty if the entrance is effected without her
knowledge or against her orders to the contrary.

226
Kautilya's Arthashastra

My teacher says:--With a view to avoid danger, it is no
offence for women to go to any male person who is a kinsman of
her husband, or is a rich and prosperous gentleman (sukhdvastha),
or is the head-man of the village or is one of her guardians
(anvddhikula), or who belongs to the family of a mendicant
woman, or to any one of her own kinsmen.

But Kautilya questions :--How is it possible for good women
(sddhvijana) to know at least this fact that the family of her own
kinsmen consisting of a number of males is good? It is no offence
for women to go to the houses of kinsmen under the circumstances
of death, disease, calamities, and confinement of women. Whoever
prevents her going under such circumstances, shall be fined 12
panas. If a woman conceals herself under such circumstances, she
shall forfeit her endowment. If her kinsmen conceal her (with a
view to exempt her from giving her aid under such circumstances),
they shall lose the balance of sulka, money due to them from her
husband for giving her in marriage. Thus vagrancy is dealt with.

(Elopement or Criminal Rendezvous.)

If leaving her husband's house, a woman goes to another
village, she shall not only pay a fine of 12 panas, but also forfeit
her endowment and jewels (sthdpydbharanalopascha). If under
any other excuse than receiving her subsistence or pilgrimage
(bharmdddnatirthagamandbhydmanyatra), a woman goes to any
other place even in company with an associable man, she shall not
only pay a fine of 24 panas, but also lose all kinds of social
privileges (sarvadharmalopascha). But the man who allows such a
woman to accompany him in his journey shall be punished with the
first amercement. If both of them (man, and woman) have similar
ideals in life (fulyasreyasoh) and are of sinful life (pdpiyasoh),
each of them shall be punished with the middle-most amercement.
If he whom a woman accompanies in her journey is her near

227
Kautilya's Arthashastra

relative, he shall not be punished. If a relative allows a woman to
accompany him, though he is forbidden, he shall be punished with
half the above fine (middlemost amercement). If on a road, or in
the middle of a forest, or in any other concealed places a woman
falls into the company of any other man, or if, with a view to
enjoyment, she accompanies a suspicious or forbidden man, she
shall be guilty of elopement (sangrahanam vidydt). It is no offence
for women to fall into the company of actors, players, singers,
fishermen, hunters, herdsmen, vintners, or persons of any other
kind who usually travel with their women. If a man takes a woman
with him on his journey, though forbidden to do so, or if a woman
accompanies a man though she is forbidden to do so, half of the
above fines shall be meted out to them. Thus elopement is dealt
with.

(Re-marriage of women.)

Wives who belong to Sidra, Vaisya, Kshatriya or Brdhman
caste, and who have not given birth to children should wait as long
as a year for their husbands who have gone abroad for a short time;
but if they are such as have given birth to children, they should wait
for their absent husbands for more than a year. If they are provided
with maintenance, they should wait for twice the period of time just
mentioned. If they are not so provided with, their well-to-do gndtis
should maintain them either for four or eight years. Then the gndtis
should leave them to marry after taking what had been presented to
them on the occasion of their marriages. If the husband is a
Brdhman, studying abroad, his wife who has no issue should wait
for him for ten years; but if she has given birth to children, she
should wait for twelve years. If the husband is of Kshatriya caste,
his wife should wait for him till her death; but even if she bears
children to a savarna husband, (i.e., a second husband belonging to
the same gotra as that of the former husband) with a view to avoid
the extinction of her race, she shall not be liable to contempt

228
Kautilya's Arthashastra

thereof (savarnatascha prajdtd nd pavdadam labheta). If the wife of
an absent husband lacks maintenance and is deserted by well-to-do
gndtis, she may remarry one whom she likes and who is in a
position to maintain her and relieve her misery.

A young wife (kumdri) who is wedded in accordance with the
customs of the first four kinds of marriage (dharmavivdhdt), and
whose husband has gone abroad and is heard of shall wait for him
for the period of seven menses (saptatirthdnydkdnksheta),
provided she has not publicly announced his name; but she shall
wait for him a year in case of her having announced the name of her
absent husband who is heard of. In the case of a husband who is
gone abroad but who is not heard of, his wife shall wait for the
period of five menses, but if the absent husband is not heard of, his
wife shall wait for him for the period of ten menses. In the case of a
husband who is gone abroad and is not heard of, his wife shall, if
she has received only a part of sulka from him, wait for him for the
period of three menses; but if he is heard of, she shall wait for him
for the period of seven menses. A young wife who has received the
whole amount of sulka shall wait for the period of five menses for
her absent husband who is not heard of; but if he is heard of, she
shall wait for him for the period of ten menses. Then with the
permission of judges (dharma-sthairvisrishtd), she may marry one
whom she likes; for neglect of intercourse with wife after her
monthly ablution is, in the opinion of Kautilya, a violation of one's
duty (tirthoparodho hi dharmavadha iti Kautilyah).

In the case of husbands who have long gone abroad
(dirgrhapravdsinah), who have become ascetics, or who have been
dead, their wives, having no issue, shall wait for them for the
period of seven menses; but if they have given birth to children,
they shall wait for a year. Then (each of these women) may marry
the brother of her husband. If there are a number of brothers to her
lost husband, she shall marry such a one of them as is next in age to
her former husband, or as is virtuous and is capable of protecting

229
Kautilya's Arthashastra

her, or one who is the youngest and unmarried. If there are no
brothers to her lost husband, she may marry one who belongs to the
same gotra as her husband's or relative. But if there are many such
persons as can be selected in marriage, she shall choose one who is
a nearer relation of her lost husband.

* If a woman violates the above rule by remarrying one who
is not a kinsman (ddydda) of her husband, then the woman and the
man who remarry each other, those that have given her in
remarriage and those who have given their consent to it shall all be
liable to the punishment for elopement.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, “Vagrancy; Elopement; and Short and
Long Sojournments,” in the section “Concerning Marriage” in
Book III, “Concerning Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
the Section “Concerning Marriage”. End of the sixty-first chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER V. DIVISION OF INHERITANCE.

SONS whose fathers and mothers or ancestors are alive
cannot be independent (anisvarah). After their time, division of
ancestral property among descendants from the same ancestor shall
take place, calculating per sterpes (according to fathers).

Self-acquired property of any of the sons with the exception
of that kind of property which is earned by means of parental
property is not divisible. Sons or grandsons till the fourth
generation from the first parent shall also have prescribed shares
(amsabhdjah) in that property which is acquired by means of their
undivided ancestral property; for the line (pindah) as far as the
fourth generation is uninterrupted (avichchhinnah). But those

230
Kautilya's Arthashastra

whose line or genealogy from the first ancestor is interrupted
(vichchhinnapinddh, i.e., those who are subsequent to the fourth
generation), shall have equal divisions. Those who have been
living together shall redivide their property whether they had
already divided their ancestral property before or they had received
no such property at all. Of sons, he who brings the ancestral
property to a prosperous condition shall also have a share of the
profit.

If a man has no male issue, his own brothers, or persons who
have been living with him, (saha jivino vd), shall take possession
of his movable property (dravyam); and his daughters, (born of
marriages other than the first four), shall have his immovable
property (riktham). If one has sons, they shall have the property; if
one has (only) daughters born of such marriage as is contracted in
accordance with the customs of any of the first four kinds of
marriage, they shall have the property; if there are neither sons nor
such daughters, the dead man's father, if living, shall have it; if he,
too, is not alive, the dead man's brothers and the sons of his
brothers shall have it; if there are many fatherless brothers, all of
them shall divide it; and each of the many sons of such brothers
shall have one share due to his father (piturekamamsam); if the
brothers (sodarya) are the sons of many fathers, they shall divide it
calculating from their fathers.

Among a dead man's father, brother, and brother's sons, the
succeeding ones shall depend on the preceding ones if living (for
their shares); likewise the youngest or the eldest claiming his own
share.

A father, distributing his property while he is alive, shall
make no distinction in dividing it among his sons. Nor shall a
father deprive without sufficient reason any of the sons of his
share. Father being dead, the elder sons shall show favour to the

231
Kautilya's Arthashastra

younger ones, if the latter are not of bad character.
(Time of dividing inheritance.)

Division of inheritance shall be made when all the inheritors
have attained their majority. If it is made before, the minors shall
have their shares, free of all debts.

These shares of the minors shall be placed in the safe custody
of the relatives of their mothers, or of aged gentlemen of the
village, till they attain their majority. The same rule shall hold good
in the case of those who have gone abroad. Unmarried brothers
shall also be paid as much marriage cost as is equal to that incurred
in the marriages of married brothers
(sannivishtasamamasannivishtebhyonaivesanikam dadyuh).
Daughters, too, (unmarried) shall be paid adequate dowry
(prdddnikam), payable to them on the occasion of their marriages.

Both assets and liabilities shall be equally divided.

My teacher says that poor people (nishkinchandh) shall
equally distribute among themselves even the mud-vessels
(udapdtram).

In the opinion of Kautilya, it is unnecessary to say so
(chhalam); for as a rule, division is to be made of all that is in
existence, but of nothing that is not in existence. Having declared
before witnesses the amount of property common to all (sdmdnya)
as well as the property constituting additional shares (amsa) of the
brothers (in priority of their birth), division of inheritance shall be
carried on. Whatever is badly and unequally divided or is involved
in deception, concealment or secret acquisition, shall be redivided.

Property for which no claimant is found (dddyddakam) shall
go to the king, except the property of a woman, of a dead man for

232
Kautilya's Arthashastra

whom no funeral rites have been performed, or of a niggardly man
with the exception of that of a Brdhman learned in the Vedas. That
(the property of the learned) shall be made over to those who are
well-versed in the three Vedas.

Persons fallen from caste, persons born of outcaste men, and
eunuchs shall have no share; likewise idiots, lunatics, the blind and
lepers. If the idiots, etc., have wives with property, their issues who
are not equally idiots, etc., shall share inheritance. All these
persons excepting those that are fallen from caste (patitavarjah)
shall be entitled to only food and clothing.

* If these persons have been married (before they became
fallen, etc.) and if their line is likely to become extinct, their
relatives may beget sons for them and give proportional shares of
inheritance to those sons.

[Thus ends Chapter V, “Procedure of Portioning Inheritance” in
the section of “Division of Inheritance” in Book III, “Concerning
law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the sixty-second
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER VI. SPECIAL SHARES IN INHERITANCE.

GOATS shall be the special shares of the eldest of sons, born
of the same mother, among, Brdhmans; horses among Kshatriyas;
cows among Vaisyas; and sheep among Siidras. The blind of the
same animals shall be the special shares to the middle-most sons;
species of variegated colour of the same animals shall be the
special shares to the youngest of sons. In the absence of quadruped,
the eldest shall take an additional share of the whole property

233
Kautilya's Arthashastra

excepting precious stones; for by this act alone, he will be bound in
his duty to his ancestors.

The above method is in accordance with the rules observed
among the followers of Usanas.

The father being dead, his carriage and jewellery shall be the
special share to the eldest; his bed, seat, and bronze plate in which
he used to take his meals (bhuktakdmsyam), to the middle-most;.
and black grains, iron, domestic utensils, cows and cart to the
youngest. The rest of the property, or the above things, too, may be
equally divided among themselves. Sisters shall have no claim to
inheritance; they shall have the bronze plate and jewellery of their
mother after her death. An impotent eldest son shall have only
1/3rd of the special share usually given to the eldest; if the eldest
son follows a condemnable occupation or if he has given up the
observance of religious duties, he shall have only % of the special
share; if he is unrestrained in his actions he shall have nothing.

The same rule shall hold good with the middlemost and
youngest sons; of these two, one who is endowed with manliness
(mdnushopetah), shall have half the special share usually given to
the eldest.

With regard to sons of many wives:--

Of sons of two wives of whom only one woman has gone
through all the necessary religious ceremonials, or both of whom
have not, as maidens, observed necessary religious rites, or one of
whom has brought forth twins, it is by birth that primogenitureship
is decided.

Shares in inheritance for such sons as Sita, Mdgadha, Vrdtya
and Rathakdra shall depend on the abundance of paternal property;
the rest, i.e., sons other than Sita, etc., of inferior birth, shall be

234
Kautilya's Arthashastra

dependent on the eldest for their subsistence. Dependent sons shall
have equal divisions.

Of sons begotten by a Brdhman in the four castes, the son of a
Brdhman woman shall take four shares; the son of a Kshatriya
woman three shares; the son of a Vaisya woman two shares, and
the son of a Siidra woman one share.

The same rule shall hold good in the case of Kshatriya and
Vaisya fathers begetting sons in three or two castes in order.

An Anantara son of a Brdhman, i.e. a son begotten by a
Brahman on a woman of next lower caste, shall, if endowed with
manly or superior qualities (mdnushopetah), take an equal share
(with other sons of inferior qualities); similarly Anantara sons of
Kshatriya or Vaisya fathers shall if endowed with manly or
superior qualities, take half or equal shares (with others). An only
son to two mothers of different castes shall take possession of the
whole property and maintain the relatives of his father. A
Palrasava son begotten by a Brdhman on a Sidra woman, shall
take 1/3rd share; a sapinda, (an agnate) or a kulya (the nearest
cognate), of the Brdhman shall take the remaining two shares,
being thereby obliged to offer funeral libation; in the absence of
agnates or cognates, the deceased father's teacher or student shall
take the two shares.

* Or on the wife of such a Brdhman shall a sagotra, relative
bearing the same family name, or a (mdtribandha) relative of his
mother, beget a natural son (kshetraja), and this son may take that
wealth.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, "Special Shares of Inheritance” in the
section of "Division of inheritance” in Book III, “Concerning law”
of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the sixty-third chapter from
the beginning. ]

235
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER VII. DISTINCTION BETWEEN SONS.

MY preceptor says that the seed sown in the field of another
shall belong to the owner of that field. Others hold that the mother
being only the receptacle for the seed (mdtd bhastrd), the child
must belong to him from whose seed it is born. Kautilya says that it
must belong to both the living parents.

The son begotten by a man on his wife who has gone through
all the required ceremonials is called aurasa, natural son; equal to
him is the son of an appointed daughter (putrikdputra); the son
begotten on a wife by another man, appointed for the purpose, and
of the same gotra as that of the husband; or of a different gotra, is
called kshetraja; on the death of the begetter, the kshetraja son will
be the son to both the fathers, follow the gotras of both, offer
funeral libations to both, and take possession of the immovable
property (riktha) of both of them; of the same status as the
kshetraja is he who is secretly begotten in the house of relatives
and is called giidhaja, secretly born; the son cast off by his natural
parents is called apaviddha and will belong to that man who
performs necessary religious ceremonials to him; the son born of a
maiden (before wedlock) is called kdnina; the son born of a woman
married while carrying is called sahodha; the son of a remarried
woman (punarbhdtdydh.) is called paunarbhava. A natural son can
claim relationship both with his father and his father's relatives; but
a son born to another man can have relationship only with his
adopter. Of the same status as the latter is he who is given in
adoption with water by both the father and mother and is called
datta. The son who, either of his own accord or following the
intention of his relatives, offers himself to be the son of another, is
called upagata. He who is appointed as a son is called kritaka; and
he who is purchased is called krita.

236
Kautilya's Arthashastra

On the birth of a natural son, savarna sons shall have 1/3rd of
inheritance while savarna sons shall have only food and clothing.

Sons begotten by Brdhmans or Kshatriyas on women of next
lower caste (anantardputrdh) are called savarnas; but on women
of castes lower by two grades are called asavarnas. (Of such
asavarna sons), the son begotten by a Brdhman on a Vaisya
woman is called Ambashtha; on a Siidra woman is called Nishdda
or Pdrasava. The son begotten by a Kshatriya on a Stidra woman is
known as Ugra; the son begotten by a Vaisya on a Stidra woman is
no other than a Siidra. Sons begotten by men of impure life of any
of the four castes on women of lower castes next to their own are
called Vrdtyas.

The above kinds of sons are called anuloma, sons begotten by men
of higher on women of lower castes.

Sons begotten by a Sidra on women of higher castes are
Ayogava, Kshatta, and Chanddla; by a Vaisya, Mdgadha, and
Vaidehaka; and by a Kshatriya, Sita. But men of the, names, Sita
and Mdgadha, celebrated in the Purdnas, are quite different and of
greater merit than either Brdhmans or Kshatriyas. The above kinds
of sons are pratiloma, sons begotten by men of lower on women of
higher castes, and originate on account of kings violating all
dharmas.

The son begotten by an Ugra on a Nishdda woman is called
kukkuta and the same is called Pulkasa, if begotten in the inverse
order. The son begotten by an Ambhashtha on a Vaidehaka woman
is named Vaina; the same in the reverse order is called Kusilava.
An Ugra begets on a Kshatta woman as vapdka. These and other
sons are of mixed castes (Antardlas).

A Vainya becomes a Rathakdra, chariot-maker, by
profession. Members of this caste shall marry among themselves.

237
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Both in customs and avocations they shall follow their ancestors.
They may either become Siidras or embrace any other lower castes
excepting Chanddlas.

The king who guides his subjects in accordance with the
above rules will attain to heaven; otherwise he will fall into the
hell.

Offsprings of mixed castes (Antardlas) shall have equal
divisions of inheritance.

* Partition of inheritance shall be made in accordance with
the customs prevalent in the country, caste, guild (sangha), or the
village of the inheritors.

[Thus ends Chapter VII "Distinction between Sons” in the section
of “Division of Inheritance” in Book III, “Concerning law” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of “Division of Inheritance”. End of
the sixty-fourth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER VIII. BUILDINGS.

DISPUTES concerning Vdstu are dependent for settlement on
the evidences to be furnished by people living in the
neighbourhood.

Houses, fields, gardens, building of any kind (setubandhah),
lakes and tanks are each called Vdstu.

The fastening of the roof of a house to the transverse beam by
means of iron bolts is called setu (karna-kilaya-sabandho’

238
Kautilya's Arthashastra

nugriham setuh). In conformity to the stability of the setu, houses
shall be constructed. Not encroaching upon what belongs to others,
new houses may be constructed.

Foundation (pade bandhah) shall be 2 aratnis by 3 padas.
Except in the case of temporary structures for the confinement of
women for ten days, all permanent houses shall be provided with a
dunghill (avaskara), water course (bhrama), and a well
(udapdnum). Violation of this rule shall be punished with the first
amercement.

The same rule shall hold good regarding the necessity of
constructing closets, pits and water courses on festive occasions.

From each house a water course of sufficient slope and 3
padas or 11 aratnis long shall be so constructed that water shall
either flow from it in a continuous line or fall from it (into the
drain).

Violation of this rule shall be punished with a fine of 54
panas.

Beginning with a pada or an aratni, an apartment measuring 3
padas by 4 padas shall be made for locating the fire for worship
(agnishtham), or a waterbutt, (udanjaram), or a corn-mill
(rochanim), or a mortar (kuttinin).

Violation of this rule shall be punished with a fine of 24
panas.

Between any two houses or between the extended portions of
any two houses, the intervening space shall be 4 padas, or 3 padas.
The roofs of adjoining houses may either be 4 angulas apart, or one
of them may cover the other. The front door (anidvdram) shall

239
Kautilya's Arthashastra

measure a kishku; there shall be no impediment inside the house for
opening one or the other of the folds of the door. The upper story
shall be provided with a small but high window. [If a
(neighbouring) house is obstructed by it, the window should be
closed.] The owners of houses may construct their houses in any
other way they collectively like, but they shall avoid whatever is
injurious. With a view to ward off the evil consequences of rain,
the top of the roof (vdnalatyaschordhvam) shall be covered over
with a broad mat, not blowable by the wind. Neither shall the roof
be such as will easily bend or break. Violation of this rule shall be
punished with the first amercement. The same punishment shall be
meted out for causing annoyance by constructing doors or
windows facing those of others houses except when these houses
are separated by the king's road or the high road.

If a pit, steps, water-course, ladder, dung-hill, or, any other
parts of a house offer or cause annoyance to outsiders, or in any
way obstruct the enjoyment of others (bhoganigrahe cha), or cause
water to collect and thereby injure the wall of a neighbouring
house, the owner shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas. If the
annoyance is due to feces and urine, the fine shall be double the
above. The water-course or gutter shall offer free passage for
water; otherwise the fine shall be 12 panas.

The same fine (12 panas) shall be meted out not only to a
tenant who, though asked to evacuate, resides in the house, but also
to the owner who forces out a renter who has paid his rent (from his
house), unless the renter is involved in such acts as defamation,
theft, robbery, abduction, or enjoyment with a false title. He who
voluntarily evacuates a house shall pay the balance of the annual
rent.

If any one of a party does not take part in the construction of a
building which is intended for the common use of all the members
of that party or if any one obstructs another member of a party in

240
Kautilya's Arthashastra

making use of any part of such a building, he shall be fined 12
panas. Similarly if any one mars another's enjoyment of such a
building, he shall be fined double the above.

* With the exception of private rooms and parlours, (angana)
all other open parts of houses as well as apartments where fire is
ever kindled for worship or a mortar is situated shall be thrown
open for common use.

[Thus ends Chapter VIII, “House-building” in the section of
“Buildings” in Book III, “Concerning Law” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the sixty-fifth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IX. SALE OF BUILDINGS, BOUNDARY
DISPUTES, DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES, AND
MISCELLANEOUS HINDRANCES.

RICH persons among kinsmen or neighbours shall in
succession go for the purchase of land and other holdings.
Neighbours of good family, forty in number and different from the
purchasers above mentioned, shall congregate in front of the
building for sale and announce it as such. Accurate description of
the exact boundaries of fields, gardens, buildings of any kind, lakes
or tanks shall be declared before the elders of the village or of the
neighbourhood. If, on crying aloud thrice “Who will purchase this
at such and such a price’? no opposition is offered, the purchaser
may proceed to purchase the holding in question. If at this time the
value of the property is increased by bidding even among persons
of the same community, the increased amount together with the toll
on the value shall be handed over into the king's treasury. The
bidder (vikrayapratikroshtd) shall pay the toll. Bidding for a

241
Kautilya's Arthashastra

property in the absence of its owner shall be punished with a fine of
24 panas. If the owner does not come forward even on the
expiration of seven nights, the bidder may take possession of the
property. Sale of building, etc., (vdstu) to other than the bidder
shall be punished with a fine of 200 panas; if the property is other
than buildings, etc., (vdstu), the fine for the above offence shall be
24 panas. Thus the sale of buildings is dealt with.

(Boundary disputes.)

In all disputes regarding the boundary between any two
villages, neighbours or elders of five or ten villages (panchagrdmi
dasagrdmi vd) shall investigate the case on the evidence to be
furnished from natural or artificial boundary marks.

Elders among cultivators and herdsmen, or outsiders who
have had the experience of former possession in the place, or one
or many persons (not) personally acquainted with the boundary
marks under dispute shall first describe the boundary marks, and
then, wearing unusual dress (viparitaveshah), shall lead the people
(to the place). If the boundary marks just described are not found, a
fine of 1,000 panas shall be imposed (on the misleading or guilty
person). If, however, they arrive at the exact spot, the party who
have either encroached upon the boundary or have destroyed the
boundary marks shall be similarly punished.

The king shall beneficially distribute among others those
holdings which have no boundary-marks or which have ceased to
be enjoyed by any person.

(Disputes about fields.)

Disputes concerning fields shall be decided by the elders of
the neighbourbood or of the village. If they are divided in their
opinions, decision shall be sought for from a number of pure and

242
Kautilya's Arthashastra

respectable people, or, the disputants may equally divide the
disputed holding among themselves. If both of these methods fail,
the holding (vdstu) under dispute shall be taken possession of by
the king. The same rule shall hold good in the case of a holding for
which no claimant is forthcoming; or it may beneficially be
distributed among the people. Occupation of a holding (vdstu) by
force shall be punished as theft.

If a holding is taken possession of by another on some
reasonable grounds, he shall be made to pay to the owner some
rent, the amount of which is to be fixed after mature considerations
of what is necessary for the subsistence of the cultivator of the
holding by him.

Encroachment upon boundaries shall be punished with the
first amercement. Destruction of boundaries shall be punished with
a fine of 24 panas. The same rules shall hold good in disputes
concerning hermitage in forests, pasture lands, high roads,
cremation-grounds, temples, sacrificial places, and places of
pilgrimage. Thus the determination of boundaries is dealt with.

(Miscellaneous hindrances.)

All kinds of disputes shall depend for their settlement on the
evidence to be furnished by neighbours. Of pasture lands, fields
(keddra), flower gardens, a threshing-floor (khala), houses, and
stables of horses (vdhanakoshtha), hindrance to any one coming
first in order shall be removed in preference to the one or more
coming later in the series. With the exception of people in forests
of Brdhmans and of Soma-plants, temples, and places of sacrifice
and pilgrimage, any person causing, while making use of a by-path
to go to tanks, rivers, or fields, damage to the seeds sown in the
fields of others, shall pay as much compensation to the sufferers as
is equivalent to the damage.

243
Kautilya's Arthashastra

If the owner of any one of the following, viz., wet-fields,
parks, or any kinds of buildings, causes damage to the rest owned
by others, the fine shall be double the value of the damage.

The water of a lower tank shall not submerge the field
irrigated by a higher tank.

The natural flow of water from a higher to a lower tank shall
not be stopped unless the lower tank has ceased to be useful for
three consecutive years. Violation of this rule shall be punished
with the first amercement. The same punishment shall be meted
out for emptying a tank of its water (tatdkavdmanam cha).
Buildings of any kind (setubandha), neglected for five consecutive
years shall be forfeited, except in calamities.

(Remission of taxes.)

In the case of construction of new works, such as tanks, lakes,
etc., taxes (on the lands below such tanks) shall be remitted for five
years (panchavdrshikah parihdrah). For repairing neglected or
ruined works of similar nature, taxes shall be remitted for four
years. For improving or extending water-works, taxes shall be
remitted for three years. In the case of acquiring such newly started
works by mortgage or purchase, taxes on the lands below such
works shall be remitted for two years. If uncultivated tracts are
acquired (for cultivation) by mortgage, purchase or in any other
way, remission of taxes shall be for two years. Out of crops grown
by irrigation by means of wind power or bullocks
(vdtapravartimanandinibandhdyatana) or below tanks, in fields,
parks, flower gardens, or in any other way, so much of the produce
as would not entail hardship on the cultivators may be given to the
Government. Persons who cultivate the lands below tanks, etc., of
others at a stipulated price (prakraya), or for annual rent
(avakraya), or for certain number of shares of the crops grown

244
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(bhdga) or persons who are permitted to enjoy such lands free of
rent of any kind, shall keep the tanks, etc., in good repair; otherwise
they shall be punished with a fine of double the loss.

* Persons, letting out the water of tanks, etc., at any other
place than their sluice gate (apdre), shall pay a fine of 6 panas; and
persons who recklessly obstruct the flow of water from the
sluice-gate of tanks shall also pay the same fine.

[Thus ends Chapter IX, "Sale of buildings, boundary disputes,
determination of boundaries, and miscellaneous hindrances” in the
section of “Buildings” in Book III, “Concerning Law” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the sixty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER X. DESTRUCTION OF PASTURE-LANDS,
FIELDS AND ROADS, AND NON-PERFORMANCE OF
AGREEMENTS.

PERSONS who obstruct, or make any kind of mischief with
the flow of water intended for cultivation shall be punished with
the first amercement. Construction in the sites belonging to others,
of any buildings with a view to attract pilgrims thereto, of abodes
of worship (chaitya), or of temples of gods; as also the sale or
mortgage, or causing the sale or mortgage, of any long continued
charitable building (pidrvdnuvrittam dharmasetum) shall be
punished with the middlemost amercement. Those who are
witnesses to such transactions shall be punished with the highest
amercement excepting in the case of neglected or ruined buildings.
In the absence of claimants to dilapidated religious buildings,
villagers (grdmdh), or charitable people (punyasildva) may repair
them.

245
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Blocking the roads.)

Forms of roads and paths have been dealt with in connection
with the construction of forts. (First Chapter, Book II).

Obstruction to roads for inferior beasts or men shall be
punished with a fine of 12 panas; to roads for superior beasts 24
panas; to roads for elephants or to those leading to fields, 54 panas;
to those leading to any buildings or forests (setuvanapathant), 600
panas; to those for burial grounds or villages, 200 panas; to those
for dronamukha, a fortress, 500 panas; and those leading to
sthdniya, country parts, or pasture grounds, 1,000 panas. The same
fines shall be meted out in case of ploughing the several roads too
deep (atikarshane chaishdm), and Vth of the same fines for
ploughing merely on their surface.

If a cultivator or a neighbour makes encroachment upon a
field during the time of sowing seeds, he shall be fined 12 panas,
unless the encroachment is due to evils, calamities or intolerable
occurrences arising otherwise from the field (anyatra
doshopanipatdvishahyebhyah).

(Settling in villages.)

Taxpayers shall sell or mortgage their fields to taxpayers
alone; Brdhmans shall sell or mortgage their Brahmadaya or gifted
lands only to those who are endowed with such lands; otherwise
they shall be punished with the first amercement. The same
punishment shall be meted out to a taxpayer who settles in a village
not inhabited by taxpayers. If a taxpayer takes the place of another
taxpayer, he shall enjoy all the holdings but the house of the latter.
Even the house may be given to the new settler. If a person
cultivates an inalienable land of another person who does not
cultivate it, such a person shall restore the same after five years

246
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enjoyment on taking a certain amount of compensation equivalent
to the improvement he made on the lands. Persons who are not
taxpayers and who sojourn abroad shall retain the right of
ownership (bhogam) of their lands.

(The Head-man of the village.)

When the head-man of a village has to travel on account of
any business of the whole village, the villagers shall by turns
accompany him.

Those who cannot do this shall pay 1%2 panas for every
yojana. If the headman of a village sends out of the village any
person except a thief, or an adulterer, he shall be punished with a
fine of 24 panas, and the villagers with the first amercement (for
doing the same).

Re-entrance into a village for a person previously sent out of
it (nirastasya), is explained by ‘settlement of persons in villages’
(treated of above).

At a distance of 800 angulas around every village, an
enclosure with timber posts shall be constructed.

(Trespassing cattle.)

Pasture lands, plains, and forests may be availed of for
grazing cattle.

For camels or buffaloes allowed to stray after grazing in
pasture grounds, the fine shall be Vth of a pana; for cows, horses,
or asses, 1/8th of a pana; for inferior quadrupeds 1/16th of a pana;
and for cattle found lying thereon after grazing, fines shall be
double the above; for cattle ever found to live in the vicinity of
pasture grounds, the fines shall be four times the above.

247
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Bulls, let out in the name of the village deity
(grdmadevavrishah), cows which have not passed ten days inside
the enclosure after calving, or bulls or bullocks kept for crossing
cows shall not be punished. If crops are eaten away by animals, the
owner or owners of them shall, if proved guilty, be made to pay
twice as much as the loss. Persons driving their cattle through a
field without intimating the owner shall be fined 12 panas. Any
person who allows his cattle to stray shall be fined 24 panas;
cowherds doing the same with the cattle under their care shall be
fined half the above. The same punishment shall be meted out for
letting cattle graze in flower gardens. For breaking the fence of
fields, the punishment shall be double the above. If cattle are
allowed to stray and eat the grains stored in houses, a threshing
floor, or a court yard, the owners of the cattle shall pay adequate
compensation. If beasts maintained in reserve-forests are found
grazing in a field, they shall be brought to the notice of the forest
officers and the beasts shall be driven out without being hurt or
killed. Stray cattle shall be driven out by the use of ropes or whips.
Persons hurting them in any way shall be liable to the punishment
for assault or violence. Persons who invite (cattle to graze in the
fields of others) or who are caught while committing such offences
shall by all means be put down. Thus the destruction of pasture
lands, fields, and roads is dealt with.

(Non-performance of agreement.)

The fine levied on a cultivator who arriving at a village for
work, does not work shall be taken by the village itself. He shall
refund not only double the amount of the wages he received
promising to work, but also double the value of food and drink with
which he has been provided. If the work is one of sacrificial
performance (prahavaneshu), then also he shall pay double the
amount of the wages. Any person who does not cooperate in the
work of preparation for a public show, shall, together with his

248
Kautilya's Arthashastra

family, forfeit his right to enjoy the show (prekshd). If a man who
has not cooperated in preparing for a public play or spectacle is
found hearing or witnessing it under hiding, or if any one refuses to
give his aid in a work beneficial to all, he shall be compelled to pay
double the value of the aid due from him. The order of any person
attempting to do a work beneficial to all shall be obeyed.
Disobedience in such a case shall be punished with a fine of 12
panas. If others unitedly beat or hurt such a person so ordering,
each of them shall pay double the amount of the fine usually levied
for such offence. If among the above offenders one is a Brahman or
a person superior to a Brdhman, he shall first be punished. If a
Brahman does not take part in the combined performance of any
sacrifice of his village, he shall not be violated, but may be
persuaded to pay a share.

The above rules shall also apply to non-performance of
agreements among countries (desa), castes, families, and
assemblies.

* Those who, with their united efforts construct on roads
buildings of any kind (sefubandha) beneficial to the whole country
and who not only adorn their villages, but also keep watch on them
shall be shown favourable concessions by the king.

[Thus ends Chapter X "Destruction of pasture lands, fields, and
roads," in the section of "Buildings" in Book III, “Concerning
Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya; end of “Buildings”; and of
non-performance of agreements.’ End of the sixty-seventh chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XI. RECOVERY OF DEBTS.
249
Kautilya's Arthashastra

AN interest of a pana and a quarter per month per cent is just.
Five panas per month per cent is commercial interest
(vydvahdriki). Ten panas per month per cent prevails among
forests. Twenty panas per month per cent prevails among
sea-traders (sdmudrdndm). Persons exceeding, or causing to
exceed the above rate of interest shall be punished with the first
amercement; and hearers of such transactions shall each pay half of
the above fine.

The nature of the transactions between creditors and debtors,
on which the welfare of the kingdom depends, shall always be
scrutinised. Interest in grains in seasons of good harvest shall not
exceed more than half when valued in money. Interest on stocks
(prakshepa) shall be one-half of the profit and be regularly paid as
each year expires. If it is allowed to accumulate owing either to the
intention or to the absence abroad (of the receiver or payer), the
amount payable shall be equal to twice the share or principal
(miilyadvigunah). A person claiming interest when it is not due, or
representing as principal the total amount of his original principal
and the interest thereon shall pay a fine of four times the amount
under dispute (bandhachaturgunah).

A creditor who sues for four times the amount lent by him
shall pay a fine of four times the unjust amount.

Of this fine, the creditor shall pay %ths and the debtor ith.
Interest on debts due from persons who are engaged in sacrifices
taking a long time (dirghasatra), or who are suffering from
disease, or who are detained in the houses of their teachers (for
learning), or who are either minors or too poor, shall not
accumulate.

A creditor refusing to receive the payment of his debt shall
pay a fine of 12 panas. If the refusal is due to some (reasonable)

250
Kautilya's Arthashastra

cause, then the amount free from interest (for subsequent time)
shall be kept in the safe custody of others. Debts neglected for ten
years, except in the case of minors, aged persons, diseased persons,
persons involved in calamities, or persons who are sojourning
abroad or have fled the country and except in the case of
disturbances in the kingdom (rdjyavibhrama), shall not be received
back.

Sons of a deceased debtor shall pay the principal with interest
(kust dam). (In the absence of sons), kinsmen claiming the share of
the dead man or sureties, such as joint partners of the debt,
(sahagrdhinah pratibhuvo vd) shall pay the same. No other kind of
surety is valid (na prdtibhdvyamanyat); a minor, as surety, is
inefficient (bdlaprdtibhavyam asdram = surety of a minor is not
strong).

A debt, the payment of which is not limited by time or place
or both (asamkhydtadesakdlam), shall be paid by the sons,
grandsons or any other heirs of the dead debtor. Any debt, the
payment of which is not limited by time or place or both and for
which life, marriage, or land is pledged, shall be borne by sons or
grandsons.

(Regarding many debts against one.)

Excepting the case of a debtor going abroad, no debtor shall
simultaneously be sued for more than one debt by one or two
creditors. Even in the case of a debtor going abroad, he shall pay
his debts in the order in which he borrowed them or shall first pay
his debts due to the king or a learned Brdhman.

Debts contracted from each other by either a husband or wife,
either a son or a father, or by any one among brothers of undivided
interests shall be irrecoverable.

251
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Cultivators or government servants shall not be caught hold
of for debts while they are engaged in their duties (or at work).

A wife, though she has (not) heard of the debt (pratisrdvani),
shall not be caught hold of for the debt contracted by her husband,
excepting in the case of herdsmen and joint cultivators
(gopdlakdrdhasitikebhyah). But a husband may be caught for the
debt contracted by his wife. If it is admitted that a man fled the
country without providing for the debt contracted by his wife, the
highest amercement shall be meted out; if not admitted, witnesses
shall be depended upon.

(Witnesses. )

It is obligatory to produce three witnesses who are reliable,
honest and respected. At least two witnesses acceptable to the
parties are necessary; never one witness in the case of debts.

Wife's brothers, copartners, prisoners (dbaddha), creditors,
debtors, enemies, maintained persons, or persons once punished by
the Government shall not be taken as witnesses. Likewise persons
legally unfit to carry on transactions, the king, persons learned in
the Vedas, persons depending for their maintenance on villages
(gramabhritaka), lepers, persons suffering from bodily erruptions,
outcast persons, persons of mean avocation, the blind, the deaf, the
dumb, egotistic persons, females, or government servants shall not
be taken as witnesses excepting in the case of transactions in one's
own community. In dispute concerning assault, theft, or abduction,
persons other than wife's brothers, enemies, and co-partners, can be
witnesses. In secret dealings, a single woman or a single man who
has stealthily heard or seen them can be a witness, with the
exception of the king or an ascetic. On the side of prosecution
masters against servants, priests or teachers against their disciples,
and parents against their sons can be witnesses

252
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(nigrahanasdkshyam kuryuh); Persons other than these may also
be witnesses in criminal cases. If the above persons (masters and
servants, etc.) sue each other (paraspardbhiyoge), they shall be
punished with the highest amercement. Creditors guilty of parokta
shall pay a fine of 10 times the amount (dasabandha) but if
incapable to pay so much, they shall at least pay five times the
amount sued for (panchabandham); thus the section on witnesses
is dealt with.

(Taking oaths.)

Witness shall be taken before Brdhmans, vessels of water
and fire. A Brdhman witness shall be told ‘Tell the truth’; a
Kshatriya or a Vaisya witness shall be told thus:--‘If thou utterest
falsehood, thou, do not attain the fruit of thy sacrificial and
charitable deeds; but having broken the array of thy enemies in
war, thou, do go a beggar with a skull in thy hand.’

A Sidra witness thus:--“Whatever thy merits are, in thy
former birth or after thy death, shall they go to the king and
whatever sins the king may have committed, shall they go to thee,
if thou utterest falsehood; fines also shall be levied on thee, for
facts as they have been heard or seen will certainly be subsequently
revealed.”

If in the course of seven nights, witnesses are found to have
unanimously made a false consert among themselves, a fine of 12
panas shall be levied. If they are thus found in the course of three
fortnights, they shall pay the amount sued for (abhiyogam dadyuh).

If witnesses differ, judgment may be given in accordance with
the statements of a majority of pure and respectable witnesses; or
the mean of their statements may be followed; or the amount under
dispute may be taken by the king. If witnesses give testimony for a
less amount, the plaintiff shall pay a fine proportional to the

253
Kautilya's Arthashastra

increased amount; if they attest to a greater amount, the excess
shall go to the king. In cases where the plaintiff proves himself
stupid, or where bad hearing (on the part of witnesses at the time of
the transaction) or bad writing is the cause of difficulty, or where
the debtor is dead, the evidence of witnesses alone shall be
depended on (sdkshipratyayameva sydr).

"Only," say the followers of Usanas, "in those cases where
witnesses prove themselves to have been stupid or senseless and
where the investigation of the place, time or nature of the
transaction is of no avail, the three amercements shall be levied.”

"False witnesses," say the followers of Manu, "shall be fined
ten times the amount which, no matter whether it is true or false,
they cause to be lost.”

"If," say the followers of Brihaspati, "owing to their having
been stupid, they render a case suspicious, they shall be tortured to
death.”

"No" says Kautilya:--It is the truth that witnesses have to hear
(when they are called to attest to any transaction); if they have not
minded it, they shall be fined 24 panas; if they have attested to a
false case (without scrutinising), they shall be fined half of the
above fine.

* Parties shall themselves produce witnesses who are not far
removed either by time or place; witnesses who are very far
removed either by time or place; witnesses who are very far, or
who will not, stir out, shall be made to present themselves by the
order of the judges.

[Thus ends Chapter XI, “Recovery of debts” in Book III,
“Concerning Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the

254
Kautilya's Arthashastra

sixty-eighth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XII. CONCERNING DEPOSITS.

THE rules concerning debts shall also apply to deposits.
Whenever forts or country parts are destroyed by enemies or wild
tribes; whenever villages, merchants, or herds of cattle are
subjected to the inroads of invaders; whenever the kingdom itself is
destroyed; whenever extensive fires or floods bring about entire
destruction of villages, or partly destroy immovable properties,
movable properties having been rescued before; whenever the
spread of fire or rush of floods is so sudden that even movable
properties could not be removed; or whenever a ship laden with
commodities is either sunk or plundered (by pirates); deposits lost
in any of the above ways shall not be reclaimed. The depositary
who has made use of the deposit for his own comfort shall not only
pay a compensation (bhogavetanam) to be fixed after considering
the circumstances of the place and time but also a fine of 12 panas.
Not only shall any loss in the value of the deposit, due to its use, be
made good, but a fine of 24 panas also be paid. Deposits damaged
or lost in any way shall also be made good. When the depositary is
either dead or involved in calamities, the deposit shall not be sued
for. If the deposit is either mortgaged or sold or lost, the depositary
shall not only restore four times its value, but pay a fine of five
times the stipulated value (pancbabandho dandah). If the deposit is
exchanged for a similar one (by the depositary), or lost in any other
way, its value shall be paid.

(Pledges.)

The same rules shall hold good in the case of pledges
255
Kautilya's Arthashastra

whenever they are lost, used up, sold, mortgaged, or
misappropriated.

A pledge, if productive, i.e. (a usufructory mortgage), shall
never be lost to the debtor (nddhissopakdrassidet), nor shall any
interest on the debt be charged; but if unproductive (i.e.
hypothecation), it may be lost, and interest on the debt shall
accumulate. The pledgee who does not re-convey the pledge when
the debtor is ready for it shall be fined 12 panas.

In the absence of the creditor or mediator
(prayojahdsannidhdna), the amount of the debt may be kept in the
custody of the elders of the village and the debtor may have the
pledged property redeemed; or with its value fixed at the time and
with no interest chargeable for the future, the pledge may be left
where it is. When there is any rise in the value of the pledge or
when it is apprehended that it may be depriciated or lost in the near
future, the pledgee may, with permission from the judges
(dharmasthas), or on the evidence furnished by the officer in
charge of pledges (ddhipdlapratyayo vd), sell the pledge either in
the presence of the debtor or under the presidency of experts who
can see whether such apprehension is justified.

An immovable property, pledged and enjoyable with or
without labour (praydsabhogyhah phalabhogyovd), shall not be
caused to deteriorate in value while yielding interest on the money
lent, and profit on the expenses incurred in maintaining it.

The pledgee who enjoys the pledge without permission shall
not only pay the net profit he derived from it, but also forfeit the
debt. The rules regarding deposits shall hold good in other matters
connected with pledges.

(Property entrusted to another for delivery to a third person.)

256
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The same rules shall apply to orders (ddesa), and property
entrusted for delivery to a third person (anvddhi).

If, through a merchant, a messenger is entrusted with a
property for delivery to a third person (anvddhihasta) and such
messenger does not reach the destined place, or is robbed of the
property by thieves, the merchant shall not be responsible for it;
nor shall a kinsman of the messenger who dies on his way be
responsible for the property.

For the rest, the rules regarding deposits shall also hold good

here.

(Borrowed or hired properties.)

Properties either borrowed (ydchitakam) or hired
(avakritakam) shall be returned as intact as they were when
received. If owing to distance in time or place, or owing to some
inherent defects of the properties or to some unforeseen accidents,
properties either borrowed or hired are lost or destroyed, they need
not be made good. The rules regarding deposits shall also apply
here.

(Retail sale.)

Retail dealers, selling the merchandise of others at prices
prevailing at particular localities and times shall hand over to the
wholesale dealers as much of the sale proceeds and profit as is
realised by them. The rules regarding pledges shall also apply here.
If owing to distance in time or place there occurs any fall in the
value of the merchandise, the retail dealers shall pay the value and
profit at that rate which obtained when they received the
merchandise.

Servants selling commodities at prices prescribed by their

257
Kautilya's Arthashastra

masters shall realise no profit. They shall only return the actual sale
proceeds. If prices fall, they shall pay only as much of the sale
proceeds as is realised at the low rate.

But such merchants as belong to trade-guilds
(samvyavaharikeshu) or are trustworthy and are not condemned by
the king need not restore even the value of that merchandise which
is lost or destroyed owing to its inherent defects or to some
unforeseen accidents. But of such merchandise as is distanced by
time or place, they shall restore as much value and profit as
remains after making allowance for the wear and tear of the
merchandise.

For the rest the rules regarding deposits shall apply here. It explains
retail sale.

(Sealed deposits.)

The rules laid down concerning unsealed deposits (upanidhis)
shall apply to sealed deposits also. A man handing over a sealed
deposit to other than the real depositor shall be punished. In the
case of a depositary's denial of having received a deposit, the
antecedent circumstances (prvdpaddnam) of the deposit and (the
character and social position of) the depositor are the only
evidences. Artisans (kdravah) are naturally of impure character. It
is not an approved custom with them to deposit for some reliable
reason.

When a depositary denies having received a sealed deposit
which was not, however, deposited for any reasonable cause, the
depositor may obtain secret permission (from the judges) to
produce such witnesses as he might have stationed under a wall
(gtidhabhirti) while depositing.

In the midst of a forest or in the middle of a voyage an old or

258
Kautilya's Arthashastra

afflicted merchant might with confidence put in the custody of a
depositary some valuable article with certain secret mark, and go
on his way. On his sending this information to his son or brother,
the latter may ask for the sealed deposit. If the depositary does not
quietly return it, he shall not only forfeit his credit, but be liable to
the punishment for theft besides being made to restore the deposit.

A reliable man, bent on leaving this world and becoming an
ascetic, may place a certain sealed deposit with some secret mark
in the custody of a man, and, returning after a number of years, ask
for it. If the depositary dishonestly denies it, he shall not only be
made to restore it, but be liable to the punishment for theft.

A childish man with a sealed deposit with some secret mark
may, while going through a street at night, feel frightened at his
being captured by the police for untimely walking, and, placing the
deposit in the custody of a man, go on his way. But subsequently
put into the jail, he may ask for it. If the depositary dishonestly
denies, he shall not only be made to restore it, but be liable to the
punishment for theft.

By recognising the sealed deposit in the custody of a man, any
one of the depositor's family may probably ask not only for the
deposit, but also for information as to the whereabouts of the
depositor. If the custodian denies either, he shall be treated as
before.

In all these cases, it is of first importance to inquire how the
property under dispute came in one's possession, what are the
circumstances connected with the various transactions concerning
the property and what is the status of the plantiff in society as to
wealth (arthasdmarthyam).

The above rules shall also apply to all kinds of transaction

259
Kautilya's Arthashastra

between any two persons (mithassamavdyah).

* Hence before witnesses and with no secrecy whatever,
shall all kinds of agreements be entered into; either with one's own
or different people, shall the circumstances of the time and place be
minutely considered first.

[Thus ends Chapter XII “Concerning Deposits” in Book III,
“Concernig Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
sixty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XIII. RULES REGARDING SLAVES AND
LABOURERS.

THE selling or mortgaging by kinsmen of the life of a Sidra
who is not a born slave, and has not attained majority, but is an
Arya in birth shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas; of a Vaisya,
24 panas; of a Kshatriya, 36 panas; and of a Brahman, 48 panas. If
persons other than kinsmen do the same, they shall be liable to the
three amercements and capital punishment respectively:
purchasers and abettors shall likewise be punished. It is no crime
for Mlechchhas to sell or mortgage the life of their own offspring.
But never shall an Arya be subjected to slavery.

But if in order to tide over family troubles, to find money for
fines or court decrees, or to recover the (confiscated) household
implements, the life of an Arya is mortgaged, they (his kinsmen)
shall as soon as possible redeem him (from bondage); and more so
if he is a youth or an adult capable of giving help.

Any person who has once voluntarily enslaved himself shall,

260
Kautilya's Arthashastra

if guilty of an offence (nishpatitah), be a slave for life. Similarly,
any person whose life has been twice mortgaged by others shall, if
guilty of an offence, be a slave for life. Both of these two sorts of
men shall, if they are once found desirous to run away to foreign
countries, be slaves for life.

Deceiving a slave of his money or depriving him of the
privileges he can exercise as an Arya (Aryabhava), shall be
punished with half the fine (levied for enslaving the life of an
Arya).

A man who happens to have taken in mortgage the life of a
convict, or of a dead or an afflicted man shall be entitled to receive
back (from the mortgager) the value he paid for the slave.

Employing a slave to carry the dead or to sweep ordure, urine,
or the leavings of food; keeping a slave naked; or hurting or
abusing him; or violating (the chastity of) a female slave shall
cause the forfeiture of the value paid for him or her. Violation (of
the chastity) of nurses, female cooks, or female servants of the
class of joint cultivators or of any other description shall at once
earn their liberty for them. Violence towards an attendant of high
birth shall entitle him to run away. When a master has connection
with a nurse or pledged female slave against her will, he shall be
punished with the first amercement; a stranger doing the same shall
be punished with the middlemost amercement. When a man
commits or helps another to commit rape with a girl or a female
slave pledged to him, he shall not only forfeit the purchase value,
but also pay a certain amount of money (sulka) to her and a fine of
twice the amount (of sulka to the Government).

The offspring of a man who has sold off himself as a slave
shall be an Arya. A slave shall be entitled to enjoy not only
whatever he has earned without prejudice to his master’s work, but

261
Kautilya's Arthashastra

also the inheritance he has received from his father.

On paying the value (for which one is enslaved), a slave shall
regain his Aryahood. The same rule shall apply either to born or
pledged slaves.

The ransom necessary for a slave to regain his freedom is
equal to what he has been sold for. Any person who has been
enslaved for fines or court decrees (dandapranitah) shall earn the
amount by work. An Arya, made captive in war shall for his
freedom pay a certain amount proportional to the dangerous work
done at the time of his capture, or half the amount.

If a slave who is less than eight years old and has no relatives,
no matter whether he is born a slave in his master's house, or fell to
his master’s share of inheritance, or has been purchased or obtained
by his master in any other way, is employed in mean avocations
against his will or is sold or mortgaged in a foreign land; or if a
pregnant female slave is sold or pledged without any provision for
her confinement, his or her master shall be punished with the first
amercement. The purchaser and abettors shall likewise be
punished.

Failure to set a slave at liberty on the receipt of a required
amount of ransom shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas;
putting a slave under confinement for no reason
(samrodhaschdkarandt) shall likewise be punished.

The property of a slave shall pass into the hands of his
kinsmen; in the absence of any kinsmen, his master shall take it.

When a child is begotten on a female slave by her master,
both the child and its mother shall at once be recognised as free. If
for the sake of subsistence, the mother has to remain in her

262
Kautilya's Arthashastra

bondage, her brother and sister shall be liberated.

Selling or mortgaging the life of a male or a female slave once
liberated shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas with the
exception of those who enslave themselves. Thus the rules
regarding slaves.

(Power of Masters over their hired servants.)

Neighbours shall know the nature of agreement between a
master and his servant. The servant shall get the promised wages.
As to wages not previously settled the amount shall be fixed in
proportion to the work done and the time spent in doing it
(karmakdldnuripam = at the rate prevailing at the time.) Wages
being previously unsettled, a cultivator shall obtain 1/10th of the
crops grown, a herdsman 1/10th of the butter clarified, a trader
1/10th of the sale proceeds. Wages previously settled shall be paid
and received as agreed upon.

Artisans, musicians, physicians, buffoons, cooks, and other
workmen, serving of their own accord, shall obtain as much wages
as similar persons employed elsewhere usually get or as much as
experts (kusaldh) shall fix.

Disputes regarding wages shall be decided on the strength of
evidences furnished by witnesses. In the absence of witnesses, the
master who has provided his servant with work shall be examined.
Failure to pay wages shall be punished with a fine of ten times the
amount of wages (dasabandhah), or 6 panas; misappropriation of
wages shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas or of five times the
amount of the wages (panchabandho va).

Any person who, while he is being carried away by floods, or
is caught in a fire, or is in danger from elephants or tigers, is
rescued on his promise to offer to his rescuer not only the whole of

263
Kautilya's Arthashastra

his property, but also his sons, wife, and himself as slaves, shall
pay only as much as will be fixed by experts. This rule shall apply
to all cases where help of any kind is rendered to the afflicted.

* A public woman shall surrender her person as agreed upon;
but insistence on the observance of any agreement which is
ill-considered and improper shall not succeed.

[Thus ends Chapter XIII, “Rules regarding slaves” in the section of
“Rules regarding slaves” and the "Right of Masters” in the section
of “Rules regarding Labourers” in Book III, “Concerning Law” of
the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XIV. RULES REGARDING LABOURERS; AND
CO-OPERATIVE UNDERTAKING.

A servant neglecting or unreasonably putting off work for
which he has received wages shall be fined 12 panas and be
caught-hold of till the work is done. He who is incapable to turn out
work, or is engaged to do a mean job, or is suffering from disease,
or is involved in calamities shall be shown some concession or
allowed to get the work done by a substitute. The loss incurred by
his master or employer owing to such delay shall be made good by
extra work.

An employer may be at liberty to get the work done by
(another) provided there is no such adverse condition that the
former shall not employ another servant to execute the work, nor
shall the latter go elsewhere for work.

264
Kautilya's Arthashastra

An employer not taking work from his labourer or an
employee not doing his employers work shall be fined 12 panas.
An employee who has received wages to do a certain work which is
however, not brought to termination shall not, of his own accord,
go elsewhere for work.

My preceptor holds that not taking work on the part of an
employer from his employee when the latter is ready, shall be
regarded as work done by the labourer.

But Kautilya objects to it; for wages are to be paid for work
done, but not for work that is not done. If an employer, having
caused his labourer to do a part of work, will not cause him to do
the rest for which the latter may certainly be ready, then also the
unfinished portion of the work has to be regarded as finished. But
owing to consideration of changes that have occurred in time and
place or owing to bad workmanship of the labourer, the employer
may not be pleased with what has already been tured out by the
labourer. Also the workman may, if unrestrained, do more than
agreed upon and thereby cause loss to the employer.

The same rules shall apply to guilds of workmen
(sanghabhritdh.)

Guilds of workmen shall have a grace of seven nights over
and above the period agreed upon for fulfilling their engagement.
Beyond that time they shall find substitutes and get the work
completed. Without taking permission from their employer, they
shall neither leave out anything undone nor carry away anything
with them from the place of work. They shall be fined 24 panas for
taking away anything and 12 panas for leaving out anything
undone. Thus the Rules regarding labourers.

Guilds of workmen (sanghabhritdh, workmen employed by
Companies) as well as those who carry on any cooperative work

265
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(sambhiiya samutthdtarah) shall divide their earnings (vetanam =
wages) either equally or as agreed upon among themselves.

Cultivators or merchants shall, either at the end or in the
middle of their cultivation or manufacture, pay to their labourers as
much of the latter's share as is proportional to the work done. If the
labourers, giving up work in the middle, supply substitutes, they
shall be paid their wages in full.

But when commodities are being manufactured, wages shall
be paid out according to the amount of work turned out; for such
payment does not affect the favourable or unfavourable results on
the way (i.e., in the sale of merchandise by peddlars).

A healthy person who deserts his company after work has
been begun shall be fined 12 panas; for none shall, of his own
accord, leave his company. Any person who is found to have
neglected his share of work by stealth shall be shown mercy
(abhayam) for the first time and given a proportional quantity of
work anew with promise of proportional share of earnings as well.
In case of negligence for a second time or of going elsewhere, he
shall be thrown out of the Company (pravdsanam). If he is guilty
of a glaring offence (mahdparddhe), he shall be treated as the
condemned.

(Co-operation in sacrificial acts.)

Priests cooperating in a sacrifice shall divide their earnings
either equally or as agreed upon excepting what is especially due to
each or any of them. If a priest employed in such sacrifices as
Agnishtoma, etc., dies after the ceremony of consecration, (his
claimant) shall get 1/5th of the promised or prescribed present
(dakshind); after the ceremony consecrating the purchase of Soma,
Lath of the present; after the ceremony called Madhyamopasad;, or

266
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Pravargyodvdsana, 1/31d of the present; and after the ceremony
called Maya, ¥2 of the share. If in the sacrifice called Sutya, the
same thing happens after the ceremony called Prdtassavana, Yths,
of the share shall be paid; after the ceremony called Madhyandina,
the present shall be paid in full; for by that time the payment of
presents shall be over. In every sacrifice except the one called
Brihaspatisavana, it is usual to pay presents. The same rule shall
apply to the presents payable in Aharganas, sacrifices so called.

The surviving priests carrying the balance of the present or
any other relatives of a dead priest shall perform the funeral
ceremony of the dead for ten days and nights.

If the sacrificer himself (he who has instituted the sacrifice)
dies, then the remaining priests shall complete the sacrifice and
carry away the presents. If a sacrificer sends out any priest before
completing the sacrifice, he shall be punished with the first
amercement. If a sacrificer sending out a priest happens to be a
person who has not kept the sacrificial fire, or to be a preceptor or
one who has already performed sacrifices, then the fines shall be
100, 1000, and 1000 panas respectively.

* As it is certain that sacrificial merits fall in value when
performed in company with a drunkard, the husband of a Sidra
woman, a murderer of a Brdhman, or one who has violated the
chastify of the wife of his preceptor, a receiver of condemnable
gifts, or is a thief, or one whose performance of sacrificial acts is
condemnable, it is no offence to send out such a priest.

[Thus ends Chapter XIV, “Rules regarding labourers, and
Co-operative undertaking” in the section of “Rules regarding
slaves and labourers,” in Book III, “Concerning Law” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventy-first chapter from the
beginning. ]

267
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XV. RESCISSION OF PURCHASE AND SALE.

A merchant refusing to give his merchandise that he has sold
shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas, unless the merchandise is
naturally bad, or is dangerous, or is intolerable.

That which has inherent defects is termed naturally bad;
whatever is liable to be confiscated by the king, or is subject to
destruction by thieves, fire, or floods is termed as being dangerous;
and whatever is devoid of all good qualities, or is manufactured by
the deceased is called intolerable.

Time for rescission of a sale is one night for merchants; 3
nights for cultivators; 5 nights for herdsmen; and with regard to the
sale or barter of precious things and articles of mixed qualities
(vivrittivikraye), 7 nights.

Merchandise which is likely to perish sooner mays, if there is
no loss to others, be shown the favour of early disposal by
prohibiting the sale elsewhere of similar merchandise which is not
likely to perish so soon. Violation of this rule shall be punished
with a fine of 24 panas or 1/10th of the value of the merchandise
sold against this rule.

A person who attempts to return an article purchased by him
shall if the article is other than what is naturally bad, or is
dangerous, or is intolerable, be punished with a fine of 12 panas.
The same rescission rules that apply to a seller shall apply to the
purchaser also.

(Marriage Contracts)

[As regards marriages among the three higher castes,
rejection of a bride before the rite of pdnigrahana, clasping of

268
Kautilya's Arthashastra

hands, is valid; likewise among the Sidras, observing religious
rites. Even in the case of a couple that has gone through the rite of
pdnigrahana,] rejection of a bride whose guilt of having lain with
another man has been afterwards detected is valid. But never so in
the case of brides and bridegrooms of pure character and high
family. Any person who has given a girl in marriage without
announcing her guilt of having lain with another shall not only be
punished with a fine of 96 panas, but also be made to return the
sulka and stridhana. Any person receiving a girl in marriage
without announcing the blemishes of the bridegroom shall not only
pay double the above fine, but also forfeit the sulka and stridhana
(he paid for the bride).

(Sale of bipeds, etc.)

Sale of bipeds and quadrupeds as strong, healthy, and clean
though they are either unclean or actually suffering from leprosy
and other diseases, shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas. The
time of rescission of sale is three fortnights for quadrupeds and one
year for men; for it is possible to know by that time their good or
bad condition.

* An assembly convened for the purpose shall, in the matter
of rescending sales or gifts, decide in such a way that neither the
giver nor the receiver shall be injured thereby.

[Thus ends Chapter XV, “Rescission of purchase and sale” in Book
III, “Concerning Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
seventy-second chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVI. RESUMPTION OF GIFTS, SALE
269
Kautilya's Arthashastra

WITHOUT OWNERSHIP AND OWNERSHIP.

RULES concerning recovery of debts shall also apply to
resumption of gifts. Invalid gifts shall be kept in the safe custody of
some persons. Any person who has given as gift not only his whole
property, his sons, and his wife, but also his own life shall bring the
same for the consideration of rescissors. Gifts or charitable
subscriptions to the wicked or for unworthy purposes, monetary
help to such persons as are malevolent or cruel, and promise of
sexual enjoyment to the unworthy shall be so settled by rescissors
that neither the giver nor the receiver shall be injured thereby.

Those who receive any kind of aid from timid persons,
threatening them with legal punishment, defamation, or loss of
money, shall be liable to the punishment for theft; and the persons
who yield such aids shall likewise be punished.

Co-operation in hurting a person, and showing a haughty
attitude towards the king shall be punished with the highest
amercement. No son, or heir claiming a dead man’s property shall,
against his own will, pay the value of the bail borne by the dead
man (prdtibhdvyadanda), the balance of any dowry (sulkasesha),
or the stakes of gambling; nor shall he fulfill the promise of gifts
made by the dead man under the influence of liquor or love. Thus
resumption of gifts is dealt with.

(Sale without ownership.)

As regards sale without ownership:--On the detection of a lost
property in the possession of another person, the owner shall cause
the offender to be arrested through the judges of a court. If time or
place does not permit this action, the owner himself shall catch
hold of the offender and bring him before the judges. The judge
shall put the question; how the offender came by the property. If he

270
Kautilya's Arthashastra

narrates how he got it, but cannot produce the person who sold it to
him, he shall be left off, and shall forfeit the property. But the
seller, if produced, shall not only pay the value of the property, but
also be liable to the punishment for theft.

If a person with a stolen property in his possession runs away
or hides himself till the property is wholly consumed, he shall not
only pay the value, but also be liable to the punishment for theft.

After proving his claim to a lost property (svakaranam
kritva), its owner shall be entitled to take possession of it. On his
failure to prove his title to it, he shall be fined 5 times the value of
the property, (panchabandhadandah), and the property shall be
taken by the king.

If the owner takes possession of a lost article without
obtaining permission from the court, he shall be punished with the
first amercement.

Stolen or lost articles shall, on being detected, be kept in the
toll-gate. If no claimant is forthcoming within three fortnights,
such articles shall be taken by the king.

He who proved his title to a lost or stolen biped shall pay 5
panas towards ransom (before taking possession of it). Likewise
the ransom for a single-hoofed animal shall be 4 panas; for a cow
or a buffalo, 2 panas, for minor quadrupeds Yth of a pana; and for
articles such as precious stones, superior or inferior raw materials,
five per cent of their value.

Whatever of the property of his own subjects the king brings
back from the forests and countries of enemies, shall be handed
over to its owner. Whatever of the property of citizens robbed by
thieves the king cannot recover, shall be made good from his own

271
Kautilya's Arthashastra

pocket. If the king is unable to recover such things, he shall either
allow any self-elected person (svayamgrdha) to fetch them, or pay
an equivalent ransom to the sufferer. An adventurer may enjoy
whatever the king graciously gives him out of the booty he has
plundered from an enemy's country, excepting the life of an Arya
and the property belonging to gods, Brdhmans or ascetics. Thus
sale without ownership is dealt with.

(Ownership.)

As to the title of an owner to his property :--The owners who
have quitted their country where their property lies shall continue
to have their title to it. When the owners other than minors, the
aged, those that are afflicted with decease or calamities, those that
are sojourning abroad, or those that have deserted their country
during national disturbances, neglect for ten years their property
which is under the enjoyment of others, they shall forfeit their title
to it.

Buildings left for 20 years in the enjoyment of others shall not
be reclaimed. But the mere occupation of the buildings of others
during the absence of the king by kinsmen, priests, or heretics shall
not give them the right of possession. The same shall obtain with
regard to open deposits, pledges, treasure trove (nidhi), boundary,
or any property belonging to kings or priests (srotriyas).

Ascetics and heretics shall, without disturbing each other,
reside in a large area. A new comer shall, however, be provided
with the space occupied by an old resident. If not willing to do so,
the old occupier shall be sent out.

The property of hermits, (vdnaprastha) ascetics (yati), or
bachelors learning the Vedas (Brahmachdri) shall on their death be
taken by their preceptors, disciples, their brethren
(dharmabhrdtri), or class-mates in succession.

272
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whenever hermits, etc., have to pay any fines, they may, in
the name of the king, perform penance, oblation to gods,
fireworship, or the ritual called Mahdkachchhavardhana for as
many nights as the number of panas of their fines. Those heretics
(pdshanddh) who have neither gold nor gold-coin shall similarly
observe their fasts except in the case of defamation, theft, assault
and abduction of women. Under these circumstances, they shall be
compelled to undergo punishment.

* The king shall, under penalty of fines, forbid the wilful or
improper proceedings of ascetics: for vice overwhelming
righteousness will in the long run destroy the ruler himself.

[Thus ends Chapter XVI, "Resumption of gifts, sale without
ownership, and ownership” in Book III, "Concerning Law" of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventy-third chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVII. ROBBERY.

SUDDEN and direct seizure (of person or property) is termed
sdhasa; fraudulent or indirect seizure (niranvaye pavyayanecha) is
theft.

The school of Manu hold that the fine for the direct seizure of
precious stones and superior or inferior raw materials shall be
equal to their value. It is equal to twice the value of the articles
according to the followers of Usanas.

But Kautilya holds that it shall be proportional to the gravity
of the crime.

273
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In the case of such articles of small value as flowers, fruits,
vegetables, roots, turnips, cooked rice, skins, bamboo, and pots
(earthenware) the fine shall range from 12 to 24 papas; for articles
of great value such as iron (kdldyasa), wood, roping materials, and
herds of minor quadrupeds, the fine shall range from 24 to 48
panas; and for such articles of still greater value as copper, brass,
bronze, glass, ivory and vessels, etc., it shall range from 48 to 96
panas. This fine is termed the first amercement.

For the seizure of such as big quadrupeds, men, fields,
houses, gold, gold-coins, fine fabrics, etc., the fine shall range from
200 to 500 panas, which is termed the middle-most amercement.

My preceptor holds that keeping or causing to keep by force
either men or women in prison, or releasing them by force from
imprisonment, shall be punished with fines ranging from 500 to
1,000 panas. This fine is termed the highest amercement.

He who causes another to commit sdhasa after the plans
prepared by himself shall be fined twice the value (of the person or
property seized). An abettor who employs a hireling to comit
sdhasa by promising ‘I shall pay thee as much gold as thou makest
use of,” shall be fined four times the value.

The school of Brihaspati are of opinion that if with the
promise ‘I will pay thee this amount of gold,” an abettor causes
another to commit sdhasa, the former shall be compelled to pay the
promised amount of gold and a fine. But Kautilya holds that if an
abettor extenuates his crime by pleading anger, intoxication or loss
of sense (moham), he shall be punished as described above.

* In all kinds of fines below a hundred panas, the king shall
take in addition to the fine 8 per cent more as ripa and in fines
above hundred, five per cent more; these two kinds of exaction, are

274
Kautilya's Arthashastra

just inasmuch as the people are full of sins on the one hand, and
kings are naturally misguided on the other.

[Thus ends Chapter XVII, “Robbery” in Book III, “Concerning
Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventy-fourth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVIII. DEFAMATION.

CALUMNY, contemptuous talk, or intimidation constitutes
defamation.

Among abusive expressions relating to the body, habits,
learning, occupation, or nationalities, that of calling a deformed
man by his right name such as ‘the blind’, ‘the lame’, etc. shall be
punished with a fine of 3 panas; and by false name 6 panas. If the
blind, the lame, etc., are insulted with such ironical expressions as
‘a man of beautiful eyes’, ‘a man of beautiful teeth’, etc. the fine
shall be 12 panas. Likewise when a person is taunted for leprosy,
lunacy, impotency and the like. Abusive expressions in general, no
matter whether true, false, or reverse with reference to the abused,
shall be punished with fines ranging above 12 panas, in the case of
persons of equal rank.

If persons abused happen to be of superior rank, the amount
of the fines shall be doubled; if of lower rank, it shall be halved.
For calumniating the wives of others, the amount of the fines shall
be doubled.

If abuse is due to carelessness, intoxication, or loss of sense,
etc., the fines shall be halved.

As to the reality of leprosy and lunacy, physicians or

275
Kautilya's Arthashastra

neighbours shall be authorities.

As to the reality of impotency, women, the scum of urine, or
the low specific gravity of faeces in water (the sinking of faeces in
water) shall furnish the necessary evidence.

(Speaking ill of habits.)

If among Brdhmans, Kshatriyas, Vaisyas, Sidras, and
outcastes (antdvasdyins), any one of a lower caste abuses the habits
of one of a higher caste, the fines imposed shall increase from 3
panas upwards (commencing from the lowest caste). If any one of
a higher caste abuses one of a lower caste, fines imposed shall
decrease from 2 panas.

Contemptuous expressions such as 'a bad Brdhman' shall
also be punished as above.

The same rules shall apply to calumnies regarding learning
(sruta), the profession of buffoons (vdgjivana), artisans, or
musicians, and relating to nationalities such as Prdjjunaka,
Gdndhdra, etc.

(Intimidation.)

If a person intimidates another by using such expressions as ‘1
shall render thee thus’, the bravado shall be punished with half as
much fine as will be levied on him who actually does so.

If a person, being unable to carry his threat into effect, pleads
provocation, intoxication, or loss of sense as his excuse, he shall be
fined 12 panas.

If a person capable to do harm and under the influence of

276
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enmity intimidates another, he shall be compelled to give life-long
security for the well-being of the intimidated.

* Defamation of one's own nation or village shall be
punished with the first amercement; that of one's own caste or
assembly with the middlemost; and that of gods or temples
(chaitya) with the highest amercement.

[Thus ends Chapter XVIII, "Defamtion” in Book III, "Concerning
Law" of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventy-fifth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER XIX. ASSAULT.
TOUCHING, striking, or hurting constitutes assault.

When a person touches with hand, mud, ashes or dust the
body of another person below the naval, he shall be punished with
a fine of 3 panas; with some but unclean things, with the leg, or
spittle, 6 panas; with saliva (Chhardi), urine, faeces, etc. 12 panas.
If the same offence is committed above the navel, the fines shall be
doubled; and on the head, quadrupled.

If the same offence is committed on persons of superior rank,
the fines shall be twice as much: and on persons of lower rank, half
of the above fines. If the same offence is committed on the women
of others, the fines shall be doubled.

If the offence is due to carelessness, intoxication, or loss of
sense, the fines shall be halved.

For catching hold of a man by his legs, clothes, hands or hair,

277
Kautilya's Arthashastra

fines ranging above 6 panas shall be imposed. Squeezing,
rounding with arms, thrusting, dragging, or sitting over the body of
another person shall be punished with the first amercement.

Running away after making a person fall, shall be punished
with half of the above fines.

That limb of a Sudra with which he strikes a Brdhman shall
be cut off.

(Striking.)

For striking compensation is to be paid and half of the fines
levied for touching. This rule shall also apply to Chandalas and
other profane persons (committing the same offence). Striking with
the hand. shall be punished with fines below 3 panas, with the leg
twice as much as the above fine; and striking with an instrument so
as to cause swellings shall be punished with the first amercement;
and striking so as to endanger life shall be punished with the
middle-most amercement.

(Hurting.)

Causing a bloodless wound with a stick, mud, a stone, an iron
bar, or a rope shall be punished with a fine of 24 panas. Causing
the blood to gush out excepting bad or diseased blood shall be
punished with double the fine.

Beating a person almost to death, though without causing
blood, breaking the hands, legs, or teeth, tearing off the ear or the
nose, or breaking open the flesh of a person except in ulcers or
boils shall be punished with the first amercement. Causing hurt in
the thigh or the neck, wounding the eye, or hurting so as to impede
eating, speaking, or any other bodily movements shall not only be
punished with the middlemost amercement, but also be made liable

278
Kautilya's Arthashastra

to the payment (to the sufferer) of such compensation as is
necessary to cure him.

If time or place does not permit the immediate arrest of an
offender, he shall be dealt with as described in Book 1V, treating of
the measures to suppress the wicked.

Each one of a confederacy of persons who have inflicted hurt
on another person shall be punished with double the usual fine.

My preceptor holds that quarrels or assaults of a remote date
shall not be complained of.

But Kautilya holds that there shall be no acquittal for an
offender.

My preceptor thinks that he who is the first to complain of a
quarrel wins inasmuch as it is pain that drives one to law.

But Kautilya objects to it; for whether a complaint is lodged
first or last, it is the evidence of witnesses that must be depended
upon. In the absence of witnesses, the nature of the hurt and other
circumstances connected with the quarrel in question shall be
evidences. Sentence of punishment shall be passed the very day
that a defendant accused of assault fails to answer the charge made
against him.

(Robbery in quarrels.)

A person stealing anything under the tumult of a quarrel shall
be fined 10 panas. Destruction of articles of small value shall be
punished with a fine equal to the value of the articles besides the
payment (to the sufferer) of an adequate compensation.
Destruction of big things with a compensation equal to the value of

279
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the articles and a fine equal to twice the value. In the case of
destruction of such things as clothes, gold, gold-coins, and vessels
or merchandise, the first amercement together with the value of the
articles shall be levied.

Causing damage to a wall of another man's house by
knocking shall be fined 3 panas; breaking open or demolishing the
same shall be fined 6 panas, besides the restoration of the wall.

Throwing harmful things inside the house of a man shall be
fined 12 panas; and throwing such things as endanger the lives of
the inmates shall be punished with the first amercement.

For causing pain with sticks, etc., to minor quadrupeds one or
two panas shall be levied; and for causing blood to the same, the
fine shall be doubled. In the case of large quadrupeds, not only
double the above fines, but also an adequate compensation
necessary to cure the beasts shall be levied.

For cutting off the tender sprouts of fruit-trees, flower-trees or
shady trees in the parks near a city, a fine of 6 panas shall be
imposed; for cutting off the minor branches of the same trees, 12
panas; and for cutting off the big branches, 24 panas shall be
levied. Cutting off the trunks of the same shall be punished with the
first amercement; and felling the same shall be punished with the
middle-most amercement.

In the case of plants which bear flowers, fruits, or provide
shade, half of the above fines shall be levied.

The same fines shall be levied in the case of trees that have
grown in places of pilgrimage, forests of hermits, or cremation or
burial grounds.

* For similar offences committed in connection with the trees

280
Kautilya's Arthashastra

which mark boundaries, or which are worshipped or observed
(chaityeshvdlakshiteshucha,) or trees which are grown in the king's
forests, double the above fines shall be levied.

[Thus ends Chapter XIX, “Assault” in Book III, “Concerning law”
of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the seventy-sixth chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XX. GAMBLING AND BETTING AND
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES.

WITH a view to find out spies or thieves, the Superintendent
of gambling shall, under the penalty of a fine of 12 panas if played
elsewhere, centralise gambling.

My preceptor is of opinion that in complaints regarding
gambling, the winner shall be punished with the first amercement
and the vanquished with the middle-most amercement; for though
not skillful enough to win as ardently desired by him, the
vanquished fellow does not tolerate his defeat.

But Kautilya objects to it: for if the punishment for the
vanquished were to be doubled, none would complain to the king.
Yet gamblers are naturally false players.

The Superintendents of gambling shall, therefore, be honest
and supply dice at the rate of a kdkani of hire per pair. Substitution
by tricks of hand of dice other than thus supplied shall be punished
with a fine of 12 panas. A false player shall not only be punished
with the first amercement and fines leviable for theft and deceipt,
but also be made to forfeit the stakes he has won.

281
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The Superintendent shall take not only 5 per cent of the stakes
won by every winner, and the hire payable for supplying dice and
other accessories of diceplay, but also the fee chargeable for
supplying water and accommodation, besides the charge for
license.

He can at the same time carry on the transactions of sale or
mortgage of things. If he does not forbid tricks of hand and other
deceitful practices, be shall be punished with twice the amount of
the fine (levied from the deceitful gamblers.)

The same rules shall apply to betting and challenging except
those in learning and art.

(Miscellaneous offences.)
As regards miscellaneous offences:--

When a person does not return in required place or time the
property he has borrowed or hired, or placed in his custody as a
deposit, sits under the shade for more than one and a quarter of an
hour (aydma) as prescribed, evades under the excuse of being a
Brahman the payment due while passing military stations or
crossing rivers, and bawls out or invites others to fight against his
neighbours, he shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas.

When a person does not hand over the property entrusted to
him for delivery to a third person, drags with his hand the wife of
his brother, has connection with a public woman kept by another,
sells merchandise that is under ill repute, breaks open the sealed
door of a house, or causes hurt to any of the forty-house-holders or
neighbours, a fine of 48 panas shall be imposed.

When a person misappropriates the revenue he collects as the

282
Kautilya's Arthashastra

agent of a household, violates by force the chastity of a widow of
independent living, when an outcast (chanddla) person touches an
Arya woman, when a person does not run to render help to another
in danger, or runs without a cause, and when a person entertains, in
dinner dedicated to gods or ancestors Buddhists (sdkya,) Ajivakas,
Stidras and exiled persons, (pravrajita) a fine of 100 panas shall be
imposed.

When an unauthorised person examines (an offender) on
oath, executes Government work though not a Government
servant, renders minor quadrupeds impotent, or causes abortion to
a female slave by medicine, he shall be punished with the first
amercement.

When between father and son, husband and wife brother and
sister, maternal uncle and nephew or teacher and student, one
abandons the other while neither of them is an apostate; and when a
person abandons in the centre of a village another person whom he
brought there for his own help, the first amercement shall be
levied.

When a person abandons his companion in the midst of a
forest, he shall be punished with the middle-most amercement.

When a person threatens and abandons his companion in the
midst of a forest, he shall be punished with the highest
amercement.

Whenever persons who have started together on some journey
abandon one another as above, half of the above fine shall be
levied.

When a person keeps or causes to keep another person in
illegal confinement, releases a prisoner from prison, keeps or

283
Kautilya's Arthashastra

causes another to keep a minor in confinement, he shall be
punished with a fine of 1000 panas.

The rates of fines shall vary in accordance with the rank of
persons concerned and the gravity of the crimes.

Such persons as a pilgrim, an ascetic engaged in penance, a
diseased person, any one suffering from hunger, thirst, or fatigue
from journey, a villager from country parts, any one that has
suffered much from punishment and a money-less pauper shall be
shown mercy.

Such transactions as pertain to gods, Brdhmans, ascetics,
women, minors, aged persons, diseased persons and helpless
creatures shall, though not be complained of, be settled by the
judges themselves; and in such transactions as the above, excuses
due to time, place, or possession shall not be pleaded.

Such persons as are noted for their learning, intelligence,
bravery, high birth, or magnificent works shall be honoured.

* Judges shall thus settle disputes free from all kinds of
circumvention, with mind unchanged in all moods or
circumstances, pleasing and affable to all.

[Thus ends Chapter XX, “Gambling, Betting, and Miscellaneous”,
in Book III, “Concerning Law” of the Arthasastra of Kautilya. End
of the seventy-seventh chapter from the beginning. With this, ends
the third Book “Concerning Law” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamashastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 187-252.

284
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book 1V, "The Removal of Thorns"

CHAPTER I. PROTECTION OF ARTISANS.

THREE Commissioners (pradeshtdrah) or three ministers
shall deal with measures to suppress disturbance to peace
(kantakasodhanam kuryuh).

Those who can be expected to relieve misery, who can give
instructions to artisans, who can be trusted with deposits, who can
plan artistic work after their own design, and who can be relied
upon by guilds of artisans, may receive the deposits of the guilds.
The guilds (sreni) shall receive their deposits back in time of
distress.

Artisans shall, in accordance. with their agreement as to time,
place, and form of work, fulfill their engagements. Those who
postpone their engagements under the excuse that no agreement as
to time, place and form of work has been entered into shall, except
in troubles and calamities, not only forfeit lth of their wages, but
also be punished with a fine equal to twice the amount of their
wages. They shall also make good whatever is thus lost or
damaged. Those who carry on their work contrary to orders shall
not only forfeit their wages, but also pay a fine equal to twice the
amount of their wages.

(Weavers.)

Weavers shall increase the threads (supplied to them for
weaving cloths) in the proportion of 10 to 11 (dasaikddasikam).
They shall otherwise, not only pay either a fine equal to twice the
loss in threads or the value of the whole yarn, but also forfeit their
wages. In weaving linen or silk cloths (kshaumakauseydnam), the
increase shall be 1 to 1¥2. In weaving fibrous or woollen garments

285
Kautilya's Arthashastra

or blankets (patronakambdladukiildndm), the increase shall be 1 to
2.

In case of loss in length, the value of the loss shall be
deducted from the wages and a fine equal to twice the loss shall be
imposed. Loss in weight (tuldhine) shall be punished with a fine
equal to four times the loss. Substitution of other kind of yarn, shall
be punished with a fine equal to twice the value of the original.

The same rules shall apply to the weaving of broad cloths
(dvipatavdnam).

The loss in weight in woollen threads due to threshing or
falling of hair is 5 palas.

(Washermen.)

Washermen shall wash clothes either on wooden planks or on
stones of smooth surface. Washing elsewhere shall not only be
punished with a fine of 6 panas, but also be subject for the payment
of a compensation equal to the damage.

Washermen wearing clothes other than such as are stamped
with the mark of a cudgel shall be fined three panas. For selling,
mortgaging, or letting out for hire the clothes of others, a fine of 12
panas shall be imposed.

In case of substitution of other clothes, they shall not only be
punished with a fine equal to twice the value of the clothes, but also
be made to restore the true ones.

For keeping for more than a night clothes which are to be
made as white as a jasmin flower, or which are to attain the natural
colour of their threads on washing on the surface of stones, or
which are to be made whiter merely by removing their dirt by

286
Kautilya's Arthashastra

washing, proportional fines shall be imposed. For keeping for more
than 5 nights such clothes as are to be given thin colouring, for
more than six nights such as are to be made blue, for more than 7
nights such as are to be made either as white as flowers or as
beautiful and shiny as lac, saffron, or blood and such clothes as
require much skill and care in making brilliant, wages shall be
forfeited.

Trustworthy persons shall be judges in disputes regarding
colour and experts shall determine the necessary wages.

For washing the best garments, the wages shall be one pana;
for those of middle quality, half a pana; and for those of inferior
quality Y4th of a pana.

For rough washing on big stones, the wages shall be “th of a
pana.

[In the first wash of red-coloured clothes, there is a loss of
Lath part (of the colour); in the second wash, 1/5th part. This
explains subsequent losses. The rules pertaining to washermen are
also applicable to weavers.

Goldsmiths who, without giving information (to the
government), purchase from unclean hands silver or golden articles
without changing the form of the articles shall be fined 12 panas; if
they do the same changing the form of the articles (i.e., melting),
they shall be fined 24 panas; if they purchase the same from the
hands of a thief, they shall be fined 48 panas; if they purchase an
article for less than its value after melting it in secret, they shall be
liable to the punishment for theft; likewise for deception with
manufactured articles. When a goldsmith steals from a suvarna
gold equal to the weight of a mdsha (1/16th of a suvarna), he shall
be punished 200 panas; when he steals from a silver dharana silver

287
Kautilya's Arthashastra

equal to the value of a mdsha, he shall be fined 12 panas. This
explains the proportional enhancement of punishments. When a
goldsmith removes the whole amount of the gold (karsha) from a
suvarna by apasdrana method or by any other deceiptful
combination (yoga), he shall be punished with a fine of 500 panas.
In case of contaminating them (gold and silver) in any way, the
offence shall be regarded as loss of their intrinsic colour.

One mdsha shall be the fee for the manufacture of a silver
dharana;, for the manufacture of a suvarna, Ysth of the same; or fees
may be increased to twice the above according to the skill of the
manufacturer. This explains the proportional increase of fees.

Fees for the manufacture of articles from copper, brass,
vaikrinataka, and drakiita shall be five percent. In the manufacture
of articles from copper (?), 1/10th of the copper will be lost. For the
loss of a pala in weight, a fine of twice the loss shall be imposed.
This explains the proportional increase of punishments. In the
manufacture of articles from lead and tin, 1/20th of the mass will
be lost. One kdkani shall be the fee for manufacturing an article of a
pala in weight of the above. In the manufacture of articles from
iron, 1/5th of the mass will be lost; two kdkanis shall be the fee for
manufacturing an article of a pala in weight from iron. This
explains the proportional increase of fees.

When the examiner of coins declares an unacceptable current
coin to be worthy of being entered into the treasury or rejects an
acceptable current coin, he shall be fined 12 panas. When the
examiner of coins misappropriates a mdsha from a current coin of a
pana, the tax, (Vydji) of five percent on the coin having been duly
paid, he shall be fined 12 panas. This explains the proportional
increase of fines. When a person causes a counterfeit coin to be
manufactured, or accepts it, or exchanges it, he shall be fined 1,000
panas; he who enters a counterfeit coin into the treasury shall be
put to death.]

288
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Scavengers.)

Of whatever precious things sweepers come across while
sweeping, one-third shall be taken by them and two-thirds by the
king. But precious stones shall be wholly surrendered to the king.
Seizure of precious stones shall be punished with the highest
amercement.

A discoverer of mines, precious stones, or treasure troves
shall, on supplying the information to the king, receive 1/6th of it
as his share; but if the discoverer happens to be a peon (bhritaka),
his share shall be only 1/12th of it.

Treasure troves valued beyond 100,000 shall wholly be taken
by the king. But if they are of less value, the discover shall receive
1/6th of it as his share.

Such treasure troves as a man of pure and honest life can
prove to be his ancestral property shall wholly be taken by the man
himself. Taking possession of a treasure trove without establishing
such claim shall be punished with a fine of 500 panas. Taking
possession of the same in secret shall be punished with a fine of
1,000 panas.

(Medical Practice).

Physicians undertaking medical treatment without intimating
(to the government) the dangerous nature of the disease shall, if the
patient dies, be punished with the first amercement. If the death of
a patient under treatment is due to carelessness in the treatment, the
physician shall be punished with the middle-most amercement.
Growth of disease due to negligence or indifference (karmavadha)
of a physician shall be regarded as assault or violence.

289
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Musicians).

Bands of musicians (kisilavah) shall, during the rainy season,
stay in a particular place. They shall strictly avoid giving too much
indulgence or causing too much loss (atipdtam) to any one.
Violation of the above rule shall be punished with a fine of 12
panas. They may hold their performances to their liking in
accordance with the procedure of their country, caste, family,
profession, or copulation.

The same rules shall apply to dancers, dumb-players and
other mendicants.

For offences, mendicants shall receive as many lashes with an
iron rod as the number of panas imposed on them.

Wages for the works of other kinds of artisans shall be
similarly determined.

* Thus traders, artisans, musicians, beggers, buffoons and
other idlers who are thieves in effect though not in name shall be
restrained from oppression on the country.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “Protection of artisans” in Book IV, “The
Removal of Thoms” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
seventy-eighth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. PROTECTION OF MERCHANTS.

THE Superintendent of Commerce shall allow the sale or
mortgage of any old commodities (purdna bhdndandm) only when

290
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the seller or mortgagor of such articles proves his ownership of the
same. With a view to prevent deception, he shall also supervise
weights and measures.

Difference of half a pala in such measures as are called
parimdni and drona is no offence. But difference of a pala in them
shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas.

Fines for greater differences shall be proportionally
increased.

Difference of a karsha in the balance called ruld is no offence.
Difference of two karshas shall be punished with a fine of 6 panas.
Fines for greater differences shall be proportionally increased.

Difference of half a karsha in the measure called ddhaka is
no offence; but difference of a karsha shall be punished with a fine
of 3 panas.

For greater differences, fines shall be proportionally
increased.
Fines for differences in weight in other kinds of balances shall
be inferred on the basis of the above rule.

When a merchant purchases by a false balance a greater
quantity of a commodity and sells under the same nominal weight a
less quantity by the same or another false balance, he shall be
punished with double the above fines.

Deception on the part of a seller to the extent of “th part of
the articles valued at a pana and sold by number shall be punished
with a fine of 96 panas.

The sale or mortgage of articles such as timber, iron, brilliant

291
Kautilya's Arthashastra

stones, ropes, skins, earthenware, threads, fibrous garments, and
woollen clothes as superior though they are really inferior shall be
punished with a fine of 8 times the value of the articles thus sold.

When a trader sells or mortgages inferior as superior
commodities, articles of some other locality, as the produce of a
particular locality, adulterated things, or deceitful mixtures, or
when he dexterously substitutes other articles for those just sold
(samutparivartimam), he shall not only be punished with a fine of
54 panas but also be compelled to make good the loss.

By making the fine two panas for the loss of the value of a
pana, and 200 panas for that of 100, fines can be determined for
any of such false sales.

Those who conspire to lower the quality of the works of
artisans, to hinder their income, or to obstruct their sale or purchase
shall be fined thousand panas.

Merchants who conspire either to prevent the sale of
merchandise or to sell or purchase commodities at higher prices
shall be fined 1,000 panas.

Middlemen who cause to a merchant or a purchaser the loss of
Yth of a pana by substituting with tricks of hand false weights or
measures or other kinds of inferior articles shall be punished with a
fine of 200 panas.

Fines for, greater losses shall be proportionally increased
commencing from 200 panas.

Adulteration of grains, oils, alkalis, salts, scents, and
medicinal articles with similar articles of no quality shall be
punished with a fine of 12 panas.

292
Kautilya's Arthashastra

It is the duty of the trader to calculate the daily earnings of
middlemen and to fix that amount on which they are authorised to
live; for whatever income falls between sellers and purchasers (i.e.,
brokerage) is different from profit.

Hence authorised persons alone shall collect grains and other
merchandise. Collection of such things without permission shall be
confiscated by the Superintendent of Commerce.

Hence shall merchants be favourably disposed towards the
people in selling grains and other commodities.

The Superintendent of Commerce shall fix a profit of five per
cent over and above the fixed price of local commodities, and ten
per cent on foreign produce. Merchants who enchance the price or
realise profit even to the extent of half a pana more than the above
in the sale or purchase of commodities shall be punished with a fine
of from five panas in case of realising 100 panas up to 200 panas.

Fines for greater enhancement shall be proportionally
increased.

In case of failure to sell collected merchandise wholesale at a
fixed rate, the rate shall be altered.

In case of obstruction to traffic, the Superintendent shall
show necessary concessions.

Whenever there is an excessive supply of merchandise, the
Superintendent shall centralise its sale and prohibit the sale of
similar merchandise elsewhere before the centralised supply is
disposed of.

Favourably disposed towards the people, shall merchants sell
this centralised supply for daily wages.

293
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The Superintendent shall, on consideration of the outlay, the
quantity manufactured, the amount of toll, the interest on outlay,
hire, and other kinds of accessory expenses, fix the price of such
merchandise with due regard to its having been manufactured long
ago or imported from a distant country (desakdldntaritdndm
panydndm.)

[Thus ends Chapter II, “Protection of merchants” in Book I'V “The
Removal of Thoms” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
seventy-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. REMEDIES AGAINST NATIONAL
CALAMITIES.

THERE are eight kinds of providential visitations: They are
fire, floods, pestilential diseases, famine, rats, tigers (vydldh),
serpents, and demons. From these shall the king protect his
kingdom.

(Fire.)

During the summer, villages shall carry on cooking
operations outside. Or they shall provide themselves with the ten
remedial instruments (dasamuiili).

Precautionary measures against fire have been dealt with in
connection with the description not only of the duties of
superintendents of villages, but also of the king's, harem and
retinue.

Not only on ordinary days, but also on full-moon days shall
offerings, oblations, and prayers be made to fire.

294
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Floods.)

Villagers living on the banks of rivers shall, during the rainy
reason, remove themselves to upcountries. They shall provide
themselves with wooden planks, bamboos, and boats. They shall,
by means of bottle-gourds, canoes, trunks of trees, or boats rescue
persons that are being carried off by floods. Persons neglecting
rescue with the exception of those who have no boats, etc., shall be
fined 12 panas. On new and full-moon days shall rivers be
worshipped. Experts in sacred magic and mysticism
(mdydyogavidah), and persons learned in the Vedas, shall perform,
incantations against rain.

During drought shall Indra (sachindtha), the Ganges,
mountains, and Mahdkachchha be worshipped.

(Pestilences.)

Such remedial measures as will be treated of in the 14th book
shall be taken against pestilences. Physicians with their medicines,
and ascetics and prophets with their auspicious and purificatory
ceremonials shall also overcome pestilences. The same remedial
measures shall be taken against epidemics (maraka = killer).
Besides the above measures, oblations to gods, the ceremonial
called, Mahd-kachchhavardhana, milking the cows on cremation
or burial grounds, burning the trunk of a corpse, and spending
nights in devotion to gods shall also be observed.

With regard to cattle diseases (pasuvyddhimarake), not only
the ceremony of waving lights in cowsheds (nirdjanam) shall be

half done, but also the worship of family-gods be carried out.

(Famines.)

295
Kautilya's Arthashastra

During famine, the king shall show favour to his people by
providing them with seeds and provision (bijabhaktopagrdham).

He may either do such works as are usually resorted to in
calamities; he may show favour by distributing either his own
collection of provisions or the hoarded income of the rich among
the people; or seek for help from his friends among kings.

Or the policy of thinning the rich by exacting excessive
revenue (karsanam), or causing them to vomit their accumulated
wealth (vamanam) may be resorted to.

Or the king with his subjects may emigrate to another
kingdom with abundant harvest.

Or he may remove himself with his subjects to seashores or to
the banks of rivers or lakes. He may cause his subjects to grow
grains, vegetables, roots, and fruits wherever water is available. He
may, by hunting and fishing on a large scale, provide the people
with wild beasts, birds, elephants, tigers or fish.

(Rats.)

To ward off the danger from rats, cats and mongooses may be
let loose. Destruction of rats that have been caught shall be
punished with a fine of 12 panas. The same punishment shall be
meted out to those who, with the exception of wild tribes, do not
hold their dogs in check.

With a view to destroy rats, grains mixed with the milk of the
milk-hedge plants (snuhi: Euphorbia Antiquorum), or grains mixed
with such ingredients as are treated of in the 14th book may be left
on the ground. Asceties and prophets may perform auspicious
ceremonials. On new and full-moon days rats may be worshipped.

296
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Similar measures may also be taken against the danger from
locusts, birds and insects.

(Snakes.)

[When there is fear from snakes, experts in applying remedies
against snake poison shall resort to incantations and medicines; or
they may destroy snakes in a body; or those who are learned in the
Atharvaveda may perform auspicious rites. On new and full moon
days, (snakes) may be worshipped. This explains the measures to
be taken against the dangers from water-animals.

(Tigers.)

In order to destroy tigers, either the carcasses of cattle mixed
with the juice of madana plant, or the carcasses of calves filled
with the juice of madana and kodrava plants may be thrown in
suitable places.

Or hunters or keepers of hounds may catch tigers by
entrapping them in nets. Or persons under the protection of armour
may kill tigers with arms.

Negligence to rescue a person under the clutches of a tiger
shall be punished with a fine of 12 panas. Similar sum of money
shall be given as a reward to him who kills a tiger.

On new and full moon days mountains may be worshipped.
Similar measures may be taken against the inroad of beasts, birds,
or crocodiles.

(Demons. )

Persons acquainted with the rituals of the Atharvaveda, and

297
Kautilya's Arthashastra

experts in sacred magic and mysticism shall perform such
ceremonials as ward off the danger from demons.

On full-moon days the worship of Chaityas may be
performed by placing on a verandah offerings such as an umbrella,
the picture of an arm, a flag, and some goat's flesh.

In all kinds of dangers from demons, the incantation ‘we offer
thee cooked rice’ shall be performed.

The king shall always protect the afflicted among his people
as a father his sons.

Such ascetics as are experts in magical arts, and being
endowed with supernatural powers, can ward off providential
visitations, shall, therefore, be honoured by the king and made to
live in his kingdom.

[Thus ends Chapter III, "Remedies against national Calamities” in
Book IV, “The Removal of Thoms,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the eightieth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IV. SUPPRESSION OF THE WICKED LIVING
BY FOUL MEANS.

MEASURES necessary for the protection of countries have
been briefly dealt with in connection with the description of the
duties of the Collector-general.

We are now going to treat of in detail such measures as can
remove the disturbing elements of peace.

298
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The Collector-general shall employ spies disguised as
persons endowed with supernatural power, persons engaged in
penance, ascetics, world trotters (chakra-chara), bards, buffoons,
mystics (prachchhandaka), astrologers, prophets foretelling the
future, persons capable of reading good or bad time, physicians,
lunatics, the dumb, the deaf, idiots, the blind, traders, painters,
carpenters, musicians, dancers, vintners, and manufacturers of
cakes, flesh and cooked rice, and send them abroad into the country
for espionage.

The spies shall ascertain the fair or foul dealings of villagers,
or of the Superintendents of villages and report the same.

If any person is found to be of foul life (gidhajivi), a spy who
is acquainted with similar avocation shall be let loose upon him.

On acquiring friendship with the suspected person who may
be either a judge or a commissioner, the spy may request him that
the misfortune in which a friend of the spy is involved may be
warded off and that a certain amount of money may be accepted. If
the judge accedes to the request, he shall be proclaimed as the
receiver of bribes and banished. The same rule shall also apply to
commissioners.

A spy may tell the congregation of villages (grdmakiitam) or
its superintendent that a wealthy man of wicked character is
involved in some trouble and that this opportunity may be availed
of to squeeze money from him. If either the one or the other
complies with the spy, banishment shall be ordered under the
proclamation of ‘extortion.’

Under the pretence of having been charged with criminal
offence, a spy may, with promise of large sums money, begin to
deal with false witnesses. If they agree with him, they shall be
proclaimed as false witnesses and banished.

299
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Manufacturers of counterfeit coins shall also be treated
similarly.

Whoever is believed to secure for others the love of women
by means of magical charms, drugs or ceremonials performed on
cremation grounds may be approached by a spy with the request
that the wife, daughter, or daughter-in-law of some one, whom the
spy pretends to love may be made to return the love and that a
certain amount of money may be accepted. If he consents to it, he
shall be proclaimed as one engaged in witchcraft
(samvadanakdraka) and banished.

Similar steps may be taken against persons engaged in such
witchcraft as is hurtful to others.

Whoever is suspected of administering poison (rasa =
mercury) to others by reason of his talking of it or selling or
purchasing mercury, or using it in preparing medicines, may be
approached with the tale that a certain enemy of the spy may be
killed and that a certain amount of money may be received as
reward. If he does so, he shall be proclaimed as a poisoner
(rasada), and banished.

Similar steps may be taken against those who deal with
medicines prepared from madana plant.

Whoever is suspected of manufacturing counterfeit coins in
that he often purchases various kinds of metals, alkalis, charcoal,
bellows, pincers, crucibles, stove, and hammers, has his hands and
cloths dirty with ashes and smoke, or possesses such other
accessory instruments as are necessary for this illegal manufacture,
may be requested by a spy to take the latter as an apprentice, and
being gradually betrayed by the spy, such person, on proclamation
of his guilt as the manufacturer of false coins, shall be banished.

300
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Similar steps may be taken against those who lower the
quality of gold by mixing it with an alloy, or deal with counterfeit
gold (suvarna = coin 7)

There are thirteen kinds of criminals who, secretly attempting
to live by foul means, destroy the peace of the country. They shall
either be banished or made to pay an adequate compensation
according as their guilt is light or serious.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "Suppression of the wicked living by foul
means” in Book IV “The Removal Thorns” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the eighty-first chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. DETECTION OF YOUTHS OF CRIMINAL
TENDENCY BY ASCETIC SPIES.

ON availing themselves of the opening made by ordinary
spies sent in advance, special spies pretending to be endowed with
supernatural powers may, under the pretence of knowing such
incantations as cause rapid speed in running away, or render
persons invisible, or cause hard fastened doors to open, induce
highway robbers to robbery; and may under the pretence of
knowing such incantations as secure the love of women, entice
adulterers to take part in criminal actions planned for the purpose
of proving their criminal intentions.

On taking these enthusiasts thus induced to a village, where
persons under the guise of women and men are previously
stationed and which is different from the one intended to be
reached, the youths may be told that it is difficult to reach in time
the village aimed at and that the power of incantation may be seen

301
Kautilya's Arthashastra

then and there alone.

Having opened the doors seemingly with the power of
incantation, the youths may be asked to get in. Having, in the midst
of wakeful watchmen under concert, rendered the youths invisible
with incantation, they may be asked to go into the interior. Having
caused the watchmen seemingly sleepy, the youths may, as
ordered, move the beds of the watchmen with no hesitation.
Persons under the guise of others, wives may, seemingly under the
influence of incantation, please the youths.

Soon after the youths have actually experienced the powers of
incantation, they may be taught the recitation and other accessory
procedure of that art. They may afterwards be asked to test the
power of their new learning in plundering such houses as contain
articles or money with marks of identification, and simultaneously
caught hold of in the very act. They may either be arrested while
selling, purchasing, or mortgaging articles with marks of
identification, or caught hold of while under intoxication brought
about by medicinal drinks (yogasurdmatta).

From these youths thus arrested may be gathered information
regarding the past life of them and of their accomplices.

Spies under the disguise of old and notorious thieves may
similarly associate with robbers and, instituting similar measures,
cause the latter to be arrested.

The Collector-general shall exhibit these arrested robbers and
announce to the public that their arrest is due to the instructions
obtained from the king who has learnt the divine art of catching
robbers: ‘I shall similarly catch hold of other robbers again and
again, and you, people, ought to prevent any one of your own
kinsmen from his wicked deeds.”

302
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever is known, through the information of spies, to have
been a robber of yoking ropes, whips and other (agricultural)
implements may be arrested and told that his arrest is due to the
omniscient power of the king. Spies under the disguise of old and
notorious robbers, herdsmen, hunters, or keepers of hounds may
mix themselves with criminal tribes living in forests, and conspire
with them to attack villages or caravanserais which, according to
previous plan, contain plenty of counterfeit gold and other articles.
During the tumult, they may be killed by armed men concealed for
the purpose. Or on their securing plenty of stolen treasure, the
robbers may either be made to eat such food as is mixed with the
intoxicating juice of madana plant, or caught hold of either while
sleeping with fatigue caused by incessant movements or while
under intoxication due to the drinking of medicinal beverage on the
occasions of religious festivals.

The Collector-general shall exhibit in public these and other
arrested criminals and proclaim the omniscient power of the king
among the people at large.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "Detection of youths of criminal tendency
by ascetic spies,” in Book IV, “The Removal Thoms” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the eighty-second chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER VI. SEIZURE OF CRIMINALS ON SUSPICION
OR IN THE VERY ACT.

IN addition to the measures taken by spies under the guise of
prophets, such steps as are suggested by suspicious movements or
possession of stolen articles may also be taken.

303
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(Suspicion. )

Persons whose family subsist on slender means of
inheritance; who have little or no comfort; who frequently change
their residence, caste and the names, not only of themselves, but
also of their family (gotra); who conceal their own avocations and
calls; who have betaken themselves to such luxurious modes of life
as eating flesh and condiments, drinking liquor, wearing scents,
garlands, fine dress, and jewels; who have been squandering away
their money; who constantly move with profligate women,
gamblers, or vintners; who frequently leave their residence; whose
commercial transaction, journey, or destination is difficult to
understand; who travel alone in such solitary places as forests and
mountainous tracts; who hold secret meetings in lonely places near
to, or far from, their residence; who hurry on to get their fresh
wounds or boils cured; who always hide themselves in the interior
of their houses; who are excessively attached to women; who are
always inquisitive to gather information as to the women and
property of others; who associate themselves with men of
condemnable learning and work; who loiter in the dark behind
walls or under shades; who purchase rare or suspicious articles in
suspicious times or places; who are known for their inimical
dealings; whose caste and avocation are very low; who keep false
appearances or put on different caste signs; who change their
ancestral customs under false excuses; whose notoriety is already
marked; who, though in charge of villages, are terribly afraid of
appearing before the prime minister and conceal themselves or go
elsewhere; who pant in fear while sitting alone; who show undue
agitation or palpitation of heart; whose face is pale and dry while
the voice is indistinct and stammering; who always move in
company with armed men; or who keep threatening appearance;
these and other persons may be suspected to be either murderers or
robbers or offenders guilty of misappropriation of treasure-trove or
deposits or to be any other kind of knaves subsisting by foul means

304
Kautilya's Arthashastra

secretly employed.

Thus the seizure of criminals on suspicion is dealt with.
(Seizure of stolen articles.)

AS regards the seizure of criminals in the very act:--

Information regarding such articles as are either lost or stolen
shall, if the articles are not found out, be supplied to those who
trade in similar articles. Traders who conceal the articles as to the
loss of which they have already received information shall be
condemned as abettors. If they are found not to be aware of the
loss, they may be acquitted on restoring the articles.

No person shall, without giving information to the
superintendent of commerce, mortgage or purchase for himself any
old or second-hand article.

On receiving information regarding the sale or mortgage of
old articles, the Superintendent shall ask the owner how he came
by it. He may reply: it has been inherited; it has been received from
a third person; it is purchased by himself; or it has been made to
order; or it is a secret pledge; he may definitely state that the time
and place when and where it came into being. Or he may adduce
evidence as to the price and commission (kshanamiilyam) for
which it was purchased. If his statement regarding the antecedent
circumstances of the article is found to be true, he shall be let off.

If the article in question is found to be the one lost by another
person whose deposition regarding the antecedent circumstances
of the article in no way differs from the previous story, the article
shall be considered to belong to that person who is found to have
long been enjoying it and whose life is very pure. For while even

305
Kautilya's Arthashastra

quadrupeds and bipeds are found to bear such common evidences
of identification as colour, gait and form, can there be any
difficulty in identifying such articles as, in the form of raw
materials, jewels, or vessels, are the product of a single source,
definite materials, a particular manufacturer for a definite purpose?

The possessor of an article in question may plead that the
article is either borrowed or hired, a pledge or a sealed deposit, or
one obtained from a particular person for retail sale.

If he proves his allegation by producing the referee, he shall
be let off; or the referee may deny having had any concern in the
matter.

With regard to the reasons which a person, seized with an
article lost by another, assigns as to his having taken the article as a
gift from a third person, he shall corroborate them by producing as
witnesses not only those who gave and caused to give the article to
him, but also those who, being mediators, custodians, bearers, or
witnesses, arranged for the transfer of the article.

When a person is found possessed of an article which he
alleges to have been thrown out, lost, or forgotten by a third person,
he shall prove his innocence by adducing evidence as to the time,
place, and circumstances of finding the article. Otherwise he shall
restore the article, besides paying a fine equal to its value; or he
may be punished as a thief.

Thus the seizure of criminals in the very act is dealt with.
(Circumstancial Evidence.)

As regards the seizure of criminals on the clue of
circumstancial evidence:--

306
Kautilya's Arthashastra

In cases of house breaking and theft the circumstances, such
as entrance and exit effected through other than doors; breaking the
door by means of special contrivances breaking the windows with
or without lattice work, or pulling off the roof in houses consisting
of upstairs, ascending and descending upstairs; breaking the wall;
tunnelling; such contrivances as are necessary to carry off the
treasure secretly hoarded, information about which can only be
gathered from internal sources; these and other accessory
circumstances of wear and tear cognisable in the interior shall tend
to indicate the concern of internal hands in the crime, and those of
reverse nature, external agencies. The blending of these two kinds
of circumstances shall indicate both internal and external agencies.

Regarding crimes suspected to be the work of internal
agencies: Any person of miserable appearance, present on the
occasion, associated with rogues or thieves, and possessed of such
instruments as are necessary for theft; a woman who is born of a
poor family, or has placed her affections elsewhere; servants of
similar condemnable character; any person addicted to too much
sleep or who is suffering from want of sleep; any person who
shows signs of fatigue, or whose face is pale and dry with voice
stammering and indistinct and who may be watching the
movements of others or bewailing too much; any person whose
body bears the signs of scaling heights; any person whose body
appears to have been scratched or wounded with dress torn off; any
one whose legs and hands bear the signs of rubbing and scratching;
any one whose hair and nails are either full of dirt or freshly
broken; any one who has just bathed and daubed his body with
sandal; any one who has smeared his body with oil and has just
washed his hands and legs; any one whose foot-prints can be
identified with those made near the house during ingress or egress;
any one whose broken fragments of garlands, sandal or dress can
be identified with those thrown out in or near the house during
entrance or exit; any person the smell of whose sweat or drink can

307
Kautilya's Arthashastra

be ascertained from the fragments of his dress thrown out in or near
the house;-- these and other persons shall be examined.

A citizen or a person of adulterous habits may also be
suspected.

* A commissioner (pradeshtd) with his retinue of gopas and
sthdnikas shall take steps to find out external thieves; and the
officer in charge of a city (ndgaraka) shall, under the
circumstances sketched above, try to detect internal thieves inside
fortified towns.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, “Seizure of criminals on suspicion or in the
very act,” in Book IV, “The Removal of Thoms” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the eighty-third chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER VII. EXAMINATION OF SUDDEN DEATH.

IN cases of sudden death, the corpse shall be smeared over
with oil and examined.

Any person whose corpse is tainted with mucus and urine,
with organs inflated with wind, with hands and legs swollen, with
eyes open, and with neck marked with ligatures may be regarded as
having been killed by suffocation and suppression of breathing.

Any person with contracted arms and thighs may be
regarded as having been killed by hanging.

Any dead person with swollen hands, legs and belly, with

308
Kautilya's Arthashastra

sunken eyes and inflated navel may be regarded as having been
killed by hanging.

Any dead person with stiffened rectum and eyes, with tongue
bitten between the teeth, and with belly swollen, may be
considered as having been killed by drowning.

Any dead person, wetted with blood and with limb, wounded
and broken, may be regarded as having been killed with sticks or
ropes.

Any dead person with fractures and broken limbs, may be
regarded as having been thrown down.

Any dead person with dark coloured hands, legs, teeth, and
nails, with loose skin, hairs fallen, flesh reduced, and with face
bedaubed with foam and saliva, may be regarded as having been
poisoned.

Any dead person of similar description with marks of a
bleeding bite, may be considered as baving been bitten by serpents
and other poisonous creatures.

Any dead person, with body spread and dress thrown out after
excessive vomitting and purging may be considered as having been
killed by the administration of the juice of the madana plant.

Death due to any one of the above causes is, sometimes
under the fear of punishment, made to appear as having been
brought about by voluntary hanging, by causing marks of ligature
round the neck.

In death due to poison, the undigested portion of meat may be
examined in milk. Or the same extracted from the belly and thrown
on fire may, if it makes ‘chitchita’ sound and assumes the rainbow

309
Kautilya's Arthashastra

colour, be declared as poisoned.

Or when the belly (hridayam) remains unburnt, although the
rest of the body is reduced to ashes, the dead man's servants may be
examined as to any violent and cruel treatments they may have
received at the hands of the dead. Similarly such of the dead man's
relatives as a person of miserable life, a woman with affections
placed elsewhere or a relative defending some woman that has
been deprived of her inheritance by the dead man may also be
examined.

The same kind of examination shall be conducted concerning
the hanging of the body of an already dead man.

Causes such as past evils or harm done to others by a dead
man, shall be inquired into regarding any death due to voluntary
hanging.

All kinds of sudden death, centre round one or the other of the
following causes:--

Offence to women or kinsmen, claiming inheritance,
professional competition, hatred against rivals, commerce, guilds
and any one of the legal disputes, is the cause of anger: anger is the
cause of death.

When, owing to false resemblance, one's own hirelings, or
thieves for money, or the enemies of a third person murder one, the
relatives of the deceased shall be inquired as follows:--

Who called the deceased; who was with him; who
accompanied him on his journey; and who took him to the scene of
death?

Those who happened to be at the locality of murder shall be
310
Kautilya's Arthashastra

severally asked as follows:--

By whom the deceased was brought there; whether they (the
witnesses) saw any armed person lurking in the place and showing
signs of troubled appearance?

Any clue afforded by them shall be followed in further
enquiry.

* After examining the personal property such as travelling
requisites, dress, jewels, or other things which the deceased had on
his body while murdered, such persons as supplied or had
something to do with those things shall be examined as to the
associates, residence, causes of journey, profession, and other calls
of the deceased.

* If a man or woman under the infatuation of love, anger, or other
sinful passions commits or causes to commit suicide by means of
ropes, arms, or poison, he or she shall be dragged by means of a
rope along the public road by the hands of a Chanddla.

* For such murderers as the above, neither cremation rites nor any
obsequies usually performed by relatives shall be observed.

* Any relative who performs funeral rites to such wretches, shall
either himself be deprived of his own funerals or be abandoned by
his kith and kin.

* Whoever associates himself with such persons as perform
forbidden rites, shall with his other associates, if any, forfeit within
a year the privileges of conducting or superintending a sacrifice, of
teaching, and of giving or receiving gifts.

[Thus ends Chapter VII, “Examination of sudden death,” in Book
IV, “The Removal of Thorns” of the Arthasdsatra of Kautilya. End
of the eighty-fourth chapter from the beginning. ]

311
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER VIII. TRIAL AND TORTURE TO ELICIT
CONFESSION.

WHETHER an accused is a stranger or a relative to a
complainant, his defence witness shall, in the presence of the
complainant, be asked as to the defendant's country, caste, family,
name, occupation, property, friends, and residence. The answers
obtained shall be compared with the defendant's own statements
regarding the same. Then the defendant shall be asked as to not
only the nature of the work he did during the day previous to the
theft, but also the place where he spent the night till he was caught
hold of. If his answers for these questions are attested to by reliable
referees or witnesses, he shall be acquitted. Otherwise he shall be
subjected torture (anyatha karmaprdptah).

Three days after the commission of a crime, no suspected
person (sankitakah) shall be arrested inasmuch as there is no room
for questions unless there is strong evidence to bring home the
charge.

Persons who charge an innocent man with theft, or conceal a
thief shall themselves be liable to the punishment for theft.

When a person accused of theft proves in his defence the
complainant's enmity or hatred towards himself he shall be
acquitted.

Any person who keeps an innocent man in confinement
(parivdsayatah suddham) shall be punished with the first
amercement.

Guilt against a suspected person shall be established by the
production of such evidences as the instruments made use of by the
accused, his accomplices or abettors, the stolen article, and any

312
Kautilya's Arthashastra

middlemen involved in selling or purchasing the stolen article. The
validity of the above evidences shall also be tested with reference
to both the scene of the theft and the circumstances connected with
the possession and distribution of the stolen article.

When there are no such evidences and when the accused is
wailing much, he shall be regarded as innocent. For owing to one's
accidental presence on the scene of theft, or to one's accidental
resemblance to the real thief in respect to his appearance, his dress,
his weapons, or possession of articles similar to those stolen, or
owing to one's presence near the stolen articles as in the case of
Mdndavya who under the fear of torture admitted himself to be the
thief, one, though innocent, is often seized as a thief. Hence the
production of conclusive evidences shall be insisted upon.
(tasmdtsamdptakaranam niyamayet = hence punishment shall be
meted out only when the charge is quite established against the
accused?)

Ignoramuses, youngsters, the aged, the afflicted, persons
under intoxication, lunatics, persons suffering from hunger, thirst,
or fatigue from journey, persons who have just taken more than
enough of meal, persons who have confessed of their own accord
(dtmakdsitam), and persons who are very weak,--none of these
shall be subjected to torture.

Among the spies such as harlots, suppliers of water and other
drinks to travellers, story-tellers, hotel-keepers providing travellers
with boarding and lodging, any one who happens to be acquainted
with the work similar to that of the suspected may be let off to
watch his movements, as described in connection with
misappropriation of sealed deposits.

Those whose guilt is believed to be true shall be subjected to
torture (4ptadosham karma kérayet). But not women who are

313
Kautilya's Arthashastra

carrying or who have not passed a month after delivery.

Torture of women shall be half of the prescribed standard. Or
women with no exception may be subjected to the trial of
cross-examination (vdkyanuyogo vd).

Those of Brdhman caste and learned in the Vedas as well as
asceties shall only be subjected to espionage.

Those who violate or cause to violate the above rules shall be
punished with the first amercement. The same punishment shall be
imposed in case of causing death to any one by torture.

There are in vogue four kinds of torture (karma):--

Six punishments (shatdanddh), seven kinds of whipping
(kasa), two kinds of suspension from above (upari nibandhau),
and water-tube (udakandlikd cha).

As to persons who have committed grave offences, the form
of torture will be nine kinds of blows with a cane:--12 beats on
each of the thighs; 28 beats with a stick of the tree (naktamdla); 32
beats on each palm of the hands and on each sole of the feet; two on
the knuckles, the hands being joined so as to appear like a scorpion;
two kinds of suspensions, face downwards (ullambane chale),
burning one of the joints of a finger after the accused has been
made to drink rice gruel; heating his body for a day after be has
been made to drink oil; causing him to lie on coarse green grass for
a night in winter. These are the 18 kinds of torture.

The instruments of the accused such as ropes, clubs, arrows,
spades, knives, etc., shall be paraded on the back of an ass.

Each day a fresh kind of the torture may be employed.

314
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Regarding those criminals who rob in accordance with the
threat previously made by them, who have made use of the stolen
articles in part, who have been caught hold of in the very act or
with the stolen articles, who have attempted to seize the king's
treasury, or who have committed culpable crime, may, in
accordance with the order of the king, be subjected once or many
times to one all of the above kinds of torture.

Whatever may be the nature of the crime, no Brdhman
offender shall be tortured. The face of a Brahman convict shall be
branded so as to leave a mark indicating his crime:--the sign of a
dog in theft, that of a headless body in murder; that of the female
part (bhaga) in rape with the wife of a teacher, and that of the flag
of vintners for drinking liquor.

After having thus branded to a wound and proclaimed his
crime in public, the king shall either banish a Brdhman offender or
send him to the mines for life.

[Thus ends Chapter VIII, "Trial and Torture to Elicit Confession”
in Book IV, “The Removal of Thorns” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the eighty-fifth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IX. PROTECTION OF ALL KINDS OF
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS.

COMMISSIONERS appointed by the Collector-general
shall first check (the proceedings of) Superintendents and their
subordinates.

Those who seize valuable articles or precious stones from
either mines or any great manufactories shall be beheaded. Those

315
Kautilya's Arthashastra

who seize ordinary articles or necessaries of life from
manufactories of articles of small value shall be punished with the
first amercement. Those who seize from manufactories or from the
king's granary articles of 1/16 to 1/4 a pana in value shall be fined
12 panas; articles of 1/4 to 1/2 a pana in value, 24 panas; articles
1/72 to 3/4 pana in value, 36 panas; and articles of 3/4 to 1 pana in
value, 48 panas.

Those who seize articles of 1 to 2 panas in value shall be
punished with the first amercement; articles of 2 to 4 panas in
value with the middlemost; and articles of 4 to 8 panas in value
with the highest amercement. Those who seize articles of § to 10
panas in value shall be condemned to death.

When any one seizes from courtyards, shops, or arsenals
commodities such as raw materials, manufactured articles, etc., of
half the above value, he shall also be punished as above. When any
person seizes articles of lath of the above value from Government
treasury, granaries, or offices of Superintendents, he shall be
punished with twice the above fines.

It has already been laid down in connection with the king's
harem that those who intimidate thieves (with a view to give them a
signal to run away) shall be tortured to death.

When any person other than a Government servant steals
during the day from fields, yards prepared for threshing out grains,
houses, or shops commodities such as raw materials, manufactured
articles, or necessaries of life, of 1/16th to 1/4th of a pana in value,
he shall be fined 3 panas or paraded through the streets, his body
being smeared over with cow-dung, and an earthen ware pan with
blazing light tied round his loins (sardvamekhalayd). When any
person steals articles of Y4 to ¥2 of a pana in value, he shall be fined
6 panas, or his head may be shaved, or he may be exiled

316
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(mundanam pravrajanam vd). When a person steals articles of V2 to
1/3 of a pana in value, he shall be fined 9 panas, or he may be
paraded through streets, his body being bedaubed with cowdung or
ashes or with an earthenware pan with blazing light tied round his
waist. When a person steals articles of 1/3 to 1 pana in value, be
shall be fined 12 panas, or his head may be shaved, or he may be
banished. When a person steals commodities of 1 to 2 paras in
value, he shall be fined 24 panas, or his head may be shaved with a
piece of brick, or he may be exiled. When a person steals articles of
2 to 4 panas in value, he shall be punished with a fine of 36 panas;
articles of 4 to 5 panas in value, 48 panas; articles of 5 to 10 panas
in value, with the first amercement; articles of 10 to 20 panas in
value, with a fine of 200 panas; articles of 20 to 30 panas in value,
with a fine of 500 panas; articles of 30 to 40 panas in value, with a
fine of 1,000 panas; and articles of 40 to 50 panas in value, he shall
be condemned to death.

When a person seizes by force, whether during the early part
of the day or night, articles of half the above values, he shall be
punished with double the above fines.

When any person with weapons in hand seizes by force,
whether during the day or night, articles of Y4th of the above values,
he shall be punished with the same fines.

When a master of a household (kurumbddhyaksha,) a
superintendent, or an independent officer (mukhyaswdmi) issues or
makes use of unauthorised orders or seals, he shall be punished
with the first, middlemost, or highest amercement, or he may be
condemned to death, or punished in any other way in proportion to
the gravity of his crime.

When a judge threatens, browbeats, sends out, or unjustly
silences any one of the disputants in his court, he shall first of all be

317
Kautilya's Arthashastra

punished with the first amercement. If he defames or abuses any
one of them, the punishment shall be doubled. If he does not ask
what ought to be asked, or asks what ought not to be asked, or
leaves out what he himself has asked, or teaches, reminds, or
provides any one with previous statement, he shall be punished
with the middle-most amercement.

When a judge does not inquire into necessary circumstances,
inquires into unnecessary circumstances, (desa), makes
unnecessary delay in discharging his duty, postpones work with
spite, causes parties to leave the court by tiring them with delay,
evades or causes to evade statements that lead to the settlement of a
case, helps witnesses giving them clues, or resumes cases already
settled or disposed of, he shall be punished with the highest
amercement. If he repeats the offence, he shall both be punished
with double the above fine and dismissed.

When a clerk does not take down what has been deposed by
parties, but enters what has not been deposed, evades what has
been badly said (duruktam), or renders either diverse or ambiguous
in meaning such depositions as are satisfactorily given out, he shall
be punished either with the first amercement or in proportion to his
guilt.

When a judge or commissioner imposes an unjust fine in
gold, he shall be fined either double the amount of the fine, or eight
times that amount of imposition which is either more or less than
the prescribed limit.

When a judge or commissioner imposes an unjust corporeal
punishment, he shall himself be either condemned to the same
punishment or made to pay twice the amount of ransom leviable
for that kind of injustice.

When a judge falsifies whatever is a true amount or declares

318
Kautilya's Arthashastra

as true whatever amount is false, he shall be fined eight times that
amount.

When an officer lets out or causes to let out offenders from
lock-up (chdraka), obstructs or causes to obstruct prisoners in such
of their daily avocations as sleeping, sitting, eating, or execreting,
he shall be punished with fines ranging from 3 panas and upwards.

When any person lets out or causes to let out debtors from
lock-up, he shall not only be punished with the middlemost
amercement, but also be compelled to pay the debt the offender has

to pay.

When a person lets out or causes to let out prisoners from jails
(bandhandgdra), he shall be condemned to death and the whole of
his property confiscated.

When the superintendeat of jails puts any person in lock-up
without declaring the grounds of provocation
(samkrudhakamandkhydya), he shall be fined 24 panas; when he
subjects any person to unjust torture, 48 panas; when he transfers a
prisoner to another place, or deprives a prisoner of food and water,
96 panas; when be troubles or receives bribes from a prisoner, he
shall be punished, with the middlemost amercement; when he beats
a prisoner to death, he shall be fined 1,000 panas. When a person
commits rape with a captive, slave, or hired woman in lock-up, he
shall be punished with the first amercement; when he commits rape
with the wife of a thief, or of any other man who is dead in an
epidemic (ddmara), he shall be punished with the middlemost
amercement; and when he commits rape with an Arya woman in
lock-up, he shall be punished with the highest amercement.

When an offender kept in lock-up commits rape with an Arya
woman in the same lock-up, he shall be condemned to death in the

319
Kautilya's Arthashastra

very place.

When an officer commits rape with an Arya woman who has
been arrested for untimely movement at night
(akshanagrihitdydm), he shall also be hanged at the very spot;
when a similar offence is committed with a woman under slavery,
the offender shall be punished with the first amercement.

(An officer) who causes a prisoner to escape from a lock-up
without breaking it open, shall be punished with the middlemost
amercement. (An officer) who causes a prisoner to escape from a
lock-up after breaking it open, shall be condemned to death. When
he lets out a prisoner from the jail, he shall be put to death and his
property confiscated.

Thus shall the king, with adequate punishments, test first the
conduct of Government servants, and then shall, through those
officers of approved character, examine the conduct of his people
both in towns and villages.

[Thus ends Chapter IX, "Protection of all kinds of Government
Departments” in Book IV, “The Removal of Thorns” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the eighty-sixth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER X. FINES IN LIEU OF MUTILATION OF
LIMBS.

WHEN Government servants (arthachara) commit for the
first time such offences as violation of sacred institutions
(tirthdghdta), or pickpocketing (granthibheda), they shall have
their index finger cut off or shall pay a fine of 54 panas; when for a

320
Kautilya's Arthashastra

second time they commit the same, they shall have their ( ...... ) cut
off or pay a fine of 100 panas; when for a third time, they shall
have their right hand cut off or pay a fine of 400 panas; and when
for a fourth time, they shall in any way be put to death.

When a person steals or destroys cocks, mangoose, cats, dogs
or pigs, of less than 54 panas in value, he shall have the edge of his
nose cut off or pay a fine of 54 panas. If these animals belong to
either Chandalas or wild tribes half of the above fine shall be
imposed.

When any person steals wild beasts, cattle, birds, elephants,
tigers, fish, or any other animals confined in traps, fences, or pits,
he shall not only pay a fine equal to the value of the stolen animals,
but also restore the animals.

For stealing beasts or raw materials from forests, a fine of 100
panas shall be imposed. For stealing or destroying dolls, beasts, or
birds from infirmaries, twice the above fine shall be levied.

When a person steals articles of small value, belonging to
artisans, musicians, or ascetics he shall pay a fine of 100 panas;
and when he steals big articles or any agricultural implements, he
shall pay double the above fine.

When any person enters into a fort without permission, or
carries off treasure through a hole or passage in the wall of the fort,
he shall either be beheaded or be made to pay a fine of 200 panas.

When a person steals a cart, a boat or minor quadruped, he
shall have one of his legs cut off or pay a fine of 300 panas.

When a gambler substitutes false dice to be hired for a kdkani
or any other accessory things of dice-play, or commits fraud by

321
Kautilya's Arthashastra

tricks of hand, he shall have his hand cut off or pay a fine of 400
panas.

When any person abets a thief or an adulterer, he as well as
the woman who voluntarily yields herself for adultery shall have
their ears and nose cut off or pay each a fine of 500 panas, while
the thief or the adulterer shall pay double the above fine.

When any person steals a big animal, abducts a male or
female slave, or sells the articles belonging to a dead body
(pretabhdndam), he shall have both of his legs cut off or pay a fine
of 600 panas.

When a man contemptuously rushes against the hands or legs
of any person of a higher caste, or of a teacher, or mounts the horse,
elephant, coach, etc., of the king, he shall have one of his legs and
one of his hands cut off or pay a fine of 700 panas.

When a Sidra calls himself a Brdhman, or when any person
steals the property of gods, conspires against the king, or destroys
both the eyes of another, he shall either have his eyes destroyed by
the application of poisonous ointment, or pay a fine of 800 panas.

When a person causes a thief or an adulterer to be let off or
adds or omits anything while writing down the king's order,
abducts a girl or a slave possessed of gold, carries off any deceitful
transaction, or sells rotten flesh, he shall either have his two legs
and one hand cut off or pay a fine of 900 panas.

Any person who sells human flesh shall be condemned to
death.

When a person steals images of gods or of animals, abducts
men, or takes possession of fields, houses, gold, gold-coins,
precious stones, or crops of others, he shall either be beheaded or

322
Kautilya's Arthashastra

compelled to pay the highest amercement.

* Taking into consideration the (social position of) persons, the
nature of the offence, the cause, whether grave or slight (that led to
the perpetration of the offence), the antecedent and present
circumstances, the time, and the place;

* and without failing to notice equitable distinctions among
offenders, whether belonging to royal family or to the common
people, shall the commissioner determine the propriety of
imposing the first, middlemost, or highest amercements.

[Thus ends Chapter X, "Fines in lieu of mutilation of limbs" in
Book IV, “The Removal of Thorns” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of the eighty-seventh chapter from the. beginning.]

CHAPTER XI. DEATH WITH OR WITHOUT TORTURE.

WHEN a man murders another in a quarrel, he shall be
tortured to death. When a person wounded in a fight dies within
seven nights, he who caused the wound shall be put to
instantaneous death (suddhavadhah). If the wounded man dies
within a fortnight, the offender shall be punished with the highest
amercement. If the wounded man dies within a month, the offender
shall be compelled to pay not only a fine of 500 panas, but also an
adequate compensation (to the bereaved).

When a man hurts another with a weapon, he shall pay the
highest amercement; when he does so under intoxication, his hand
shall be cut off; and when he causes instantaneous death, be shall
be put to death.

323
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a person causes abortion in pregnancy by striking, or
with medicine, or by annoyance, the highest, middlemost, and first
amercements shall be imposed respectively.

Those who cause violent death either to men or women, or
those who are in the habit of often going to meet prostitutes
(abhisdraka), those who inflict unjust punishment upon others,
those who spread false or contemptuous rumours, who assault or
obstruct travellers on their way, who commit house-breaking, or
who steal or cause hurt to royal elephants, horses, or carriages shall
be hanged.

Whoever burns or carries away the corpses of the above
offenders shall meet with similar punishment or pay the highest
amercement.

When a person supplies murderers or thieves with food, dress,
any requisites, fire, information, any plan, or assistance in any way,
he shall be punished with the highest amercement. When he does
so under ignorance, he shall be censured.

Sons or wives of murderers or of thieves shall, if they are
found not in concert, be acquitted; but they shall be seized if found
to have been in concert.

Any person who aims at the kingdom, who forces entrance
into the king's harem, who instigates wild tribes or enemies
(against the king), or who creates disaffection in forts, country
parts, or in the army shall be burnt alive from head to foot.

If a Brahman does similar acts, he shall be drowned.

Any person who murders his father, mother, son, brother,
teacher, or an ascetic, shall be put to death by burning both his head

324
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and skin; if he insults any of the above persons, his tongue shall be
cut off; if he bites any limb of these persons, be shall be deprived of
the corresponding limb.

When a man wantonly murders another, or steals a herd of
cattle, he shall be beheaded.

A herd of cattle shall be considered to consist of not more
than ten heads.

When a person breaks the dam of a tank full of water, he shall
be drowned in the very tank; of a tank without water, he shall be
punished with the highest amercement; and of a tank which is in
ruins owing to neglect, he shall be punished with the middle-most
amercement.

Any man who poisons another and any woman who murders
a man shall be drowned.

Any woman who murders her husband, preceptor, or
offspring, sets fire to another's property, poisons a man or cuts off
any of the bodily joints of another shall be torn off by bulls, no
matter whether or not she is big with a child, or has not passed a
month after giving birth to a child.

Any person who sets fire to pasture lands, fields, yards
prepared for threshing out grains, houses, forests, of timber or of
elephants shall be thrown into fire.

Any person who insults the king, betrays the king's council,
makes evil attempts (against the king), or disregards the sanctity of
the kitchens of Brdhmans shall have his tongue cut off.

When a man other than a soldier steals weapons or armour,

325
Kautilya's Arthashastra

he shall be shot down by arrows; if he is a soldier, he shall pay the
highest amercement.

He who castrates a man shall have his generative organ cut
off.

He who hurts the tongue or nose of another shall have his
fingers cut off.

* Such painful punishments (klesadanda) as the above have
been laid down in the Sdstras of great sages; but it has been
declared as just to put to simple death those offenders who have not
been cruel.

[Thus ends Chapter XI, "Death with or without torture” in Book
IV, "The Removal of Thoms” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End
of the eighty-eighth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XII. SEXUAL INTERCOURSE WITH
IMMATURE GIRLS.

HE who defiles a maiden of equal caste before she has
reached her maturity shall have his hand cut off or pay a fine of 400
panas; if the maiden dies in consequence, the offender shall be put
to death.

He who defiles a maiden who has attained maturity shall have
his middle finger cut off or pay a fine of 200 panas, besides giving
an adequate compensation to her father.

No man shall have sexual intercourse with any woman

326
Kautilya's Arthashastra

against her will.
He who defiles a willing maiden shall pay a fine of 54 panas,
while the maiden herself shall pay a fine of half the amount.

When a man impersonates another man who has already paid
the nuptial fee to a woman (parasulkopadhdydm), he shall have his
hand cut off or pay a fine of 400 panas, besides making good the
nuptial fee.

No man who has connection with a maiden that has passed
seven menses and has not yet succeeded in marrying her, though
she has been betrothed to him, shall either be guilty or pay any
compensation to her father; for her father has lost his authority over
her in consequence of having deprived her so long of the result of
her menses.

It is no offence for a man of equal caste and rank to have
connection with a maiden who has been unmarried three years after
her first menses. Nor is it an offence for a man, even of different
caste, to have connection with a maiden who has spent more than
three years after her first menses and has no jewellery on her
person; for taking possession of paternal property (under such
circumstances) shall be regarded as theft.

Any person who, while pretending to secure a bride to a
particular person, ultimately obtains her for a third person shall be
fined 200 panas.

No man shall have sexual intercourse with any woman
against her will.

If a person substitutes in marriage another maiden for the one
he has before shown, he shall, if the substitute is of the same rank,
be fined 100 panas, and 200 panas if she is of lower rank. The

327
Kautilya's Arthashastra

substituted maiden shall be fined 54 panas, while the offender shall
also be compelled to return both the nuptial fee and the amount of
expenditure (incurred by the bridegroom).

When a man refuses to live in marriage a particular maiden as
agreed upon, he shall pay double the above fine.

When a man substitutes in marriage a maiden of different
blood or is found to have bestowed false praises (on her quality), he
shall not only pay a fine of 200 panas and return the nuptial fee, but
also make good the expenditure.

No man shall have sexual intercourse with any woman
against her will.

When a woman being desirous of intercourse, yields herself
to a man of the same caste and rank, she shall be fined 12 panas,
while any other woman who is an abettor in the case shall be fined
twice as much. Any woman who abets a man in having intercourse
with a maiden against her will shall not only pay a fine of 100
panas, but also please the maiden providing her with an adequate
nuptial fee.

A woman who, of her own accord, yields herself to a man
shall be a slave to the king.

For committing intercourse with a woman outside a village,
or for spreading false report regarding such things, double the
usual fines shall be imposed.

He who carries off a maiden by force shall be fined 200
panas; if the maiden thus carried off has golden ornaments on her
person, the highest amercement shall be imposed. If a number of
persons abduct a maiden, each of them shall be punished as above.

328
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a man has connection with a harlot's daughter, he shall
not only pay a fine of 54 panas, but also give her mother sixteen
times her daily income.

When a man defiles the daughter of his own male or female
slave, he shall not only pay a fine of 24 panas, but also provide the
maiden with an adequate nuptial fee (sulka) and jewellery
(dbaddhya).

When a man has connection with a woman who has been held
in slavery on account of certain ransom due from her, he shall not
only pay a fine of 12 panas, but also provide the woman with dress
and maintenance.

Abettors in all the above cases shall each have the same
punishment as the principal offender.

A relative, or a servant of an absentee husband may take the
latter's wife of loose character under his own protection
(samgrihnfyat = may marry her). Being under such protection, she
shall wait for the return of her husband. If her husband, on his
return, entertains no objection, both the protector and the woman
shall be acquitted. If he raises any objection, the woman shall have
her ears and nose cut off, while her keeper shall be put to death as
an adulterer.

When a man falsely accuses another of having committed
theft while in reality the latter is guilty of adultery, the complainant
shall be fined 500 panas.

He who lets off an adulterer by receiving gold shall pay a fine
of eight times the value of the gold (he received).

(Adultery may be proved by circumstances such as) hand to

329
Kautilya's Arthashastra

hand fight, abduction, any marks made on the body of the culprits,
opinion of experts on consideration of the circumstances, or the
statements of women involved in it.

When a man rescues a woman from enemies, forests, or
floods, or saves the life of a woman who has been abandoned in
forests, forsaken in famine, or thrown out as if dead, he may enjoy
her as agreed upon during the rescue.

A woman of high caste, with children and having no desire
for sexual enjoyment, may be let off after receiving an adequate
amount of ransom.

* Those women who have been rescued from the hands of thieves,
from floods, in famine, or in national calamities, or who, having
been abandoned, missed, or thrown out as if dead in forests, have
been taken home may be enjoyed by the rescuer as agreed upon.

* But no such women as have been cast out under royal edict, or by
their own kinsmen; nor such as belong to high caste, or do not like
to be rescued, nor even those who have children shall be rescued
either for ransom or for their person.

[Thus ends Chapter XII, “Sexual Intercourse with Immature
Girls,” in Book IV, “The Removal of Thorns” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the eighty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XIII. PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLATING
JUSTICE.

HE who causes a Brdhman to partake of whatever food or
drink is prohibited shall be punished with the highest amercement.
He who causes a Kshatriya to do the same shall be punished with

330
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the middlemost amercement; a Vaisya, with the first amercement;
and a Stdra, with a fine of 54 panas.

Those who voluntarily partake of whatever is condemned
either as food or drink shall be outcast.

He who forces his entrance into another's house during the
day shall be punished with the first amercement; and during the
night with the middlemost. Any person who with weapon in hand
enters into another's house either during the day or night shall be
punished with the highest amercement.

When beggars or peddlers and lunatics or mad persons
attempt to enter into a house by force, or when neighbours force
their entrance into a house in danger, they shall not be punished
provided no such entrance is specially prohibited.

He who mounts the roof of his own house after midnight shall
be punished with the first amercement; and of another's house, with
the middlemost amercement.

Those who break the fences of villages, gardens, or fields
shall also be punished with the middlemost amercement.

Having made the value, etc., of their merchandise known (to
the headman of the village), traders shall halt in some part of a
village. When any part of their merchandise which has not been
truly sent out of the village during the night has been stolen or lost,
the headman of the village shall make good the loss.

Whatever of their merchandise is stolen or lost in the
intervening places between any two villages shall the
superintendent of pasture lands make good. If there are no pasture
lands (in such places), the officer called Chorarajjuka shall make
good the loss. If the loss of merchandise occurs in such parts of the

331
Kautilya's Arthashastra

country as are not provided even with such security (a
Chorarajjuka), the people in the boundaries of the place shall
contribute to make up the loss. If there are no people in the
boundaries, the people of five or ten villages of the neighbourhood
shall make up the loss.

Harm due to the construction of unstable houses, carts with no
support or with a beam or weapon hung above or with damaged
support or with no covering, and harm due to causing a cart to fall
in pits, or a tank, or from a dam, shall be treated as assault.

Cutting of trees, stealing the rope with which a tameable
animal is tied, employing untamed quadrupeds, throwing sticks,
mud, stones, rods, or arrows on chariots or elephants, raising or
waiving the arm against chariots or elephants, shall also be treated
as assault.

(The charioteer) who cries out (to a passer-by) ‘get out” shall
not be punished for collision (samghattane).

A man who is hurt to death by an elephant under provocation
(caused by himself) shall supply not only a kumbha of liquor (less
by a drona), garlands, and scents but also as much cloth as is
necessary to wash the tusks; for death caused by an elephant is as
meritorious as the sacred bath taken at the end of a horse-sacrifice.
Hence this offer (of liquor, etc.), is known as ‘washing the legs.’

When an indifferent passer-by is killed by an elephant the
driver shall be punished with the highest amercement.

When the owner of a horned or tusked animal does not rescue
a man from being destroyed by his animal, he shall be punished
with the first amercement. If he heedlessly keeps quite from
rescuing though entreated, he shall be punished with twice the first

332
Kautilya's Arthashastra

amercement.

When a person causes or allows horned or tusked animals to
destroy each other, he shall not only pay a fine equal to the value of
the destroyed animal or animals, but also make good the loss (to
the sufferer).

When a man rides over an animal which is left off in the name
of gods, or over a bull, an ox, or over a female calf, he shall be
fined 500 panas. He who drives away the above animals shall be
punished with the highest amercement.

When a person carries off such inferior quadrupeds as are
productive of wool or milk, or are useful for loading or riding, he
shall not only pay a fine equal to their value, but also restore them.

The same punishment shall be imposed in the case of driving
away inferior quadrupeds for purposes other than ceremonials
performed in honour of gods or ancestors.

When an animal which has its nose-string cut off or which is
not well tamed to yoke causes hurt; or when an animal, either
coming furiously against a man or receding backwards with the
cart to which it is tied, causes hurt or when an animal causes hurt in
confusion brought about by the thronging of people and other
animals; the owner of the animal shall not be punished;. but for
hurt caused to men under circumstances other than the above, fines
shall be imposed as laid down before, while the loss of any animal
life due to such causes shall be made good. If the driver of a cart or
carriage causing hurt is a minor, the master inside the cart or
carriage shall be punished. In the absence of the master, any person
who is seated inside, or the driver himself if he has attained his
majority shall be punished. Carts or carriages occupied by a minor
or with no person shall be taken possession of by the king.

333
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whatever a man attempts to do to others by witch-craft shall
be (practically) applied to the doer himself. Witch-craft merely to
arouse love in an indifferent wife, in a maiden by her lover, or in a
wife by her husband is no offence. But when it is injurious to
others, the doer shall be punished with the middle most
amercement.

When a man performs witch-craft to win the sister of his own
father or mother, the wife of a maternal uncle or of a preceptor, his
own daughter-in-law, daughter, or sister, he shall have his limb cut
off and also put to death, ,while any woman who yields herself to
such an offender shall also, receive similar punishment. Any
woman who yields herself to a slave, a servant, or a hired labourer
shall be similarly punished.

A Kshatriya who commits adultery with an unguarded
Brdhman woman shall be punished with the highest amercement; a
Vaisya doing the same shall be deprived of the whole of his
property; and a Sidra shall be burnt alive wound round in mats.

Whoever commits adultery with the queen of the land shall be
burnt alive in a vessel (kumbhilpdkah.)

A man who commits adultery with a woman of low caste shall
be banished with prescribed mark branded on his fore-head, or
shall be degraded to the same caste.

A Stidra or a svapdka who commits adultery with a woman of
low caste shall be put to death, while the woman shall have her ears
and nose cut off.

Adultery with a nun (pravrajitd) shall be punishable with a
fine of 24 panas while the nun who submits herself shall also pay a
similar fine.

334
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A man who forces his connection with a harlot shall be fined
12 panas.

When many persons perform witch-craft towards a single
woman, each of them shall be punished with a fine of 24 panas.

When a man has connection with a woman against the order
of nature (a-yonau), he shall be punished with the first
amercement.

A man having sexual intercourse with another man shall also
pay the first amercement.

* When a senseless man has sexual intercourse with beasts, he shall
be fined 12 panas; when he comits the same act with idols
(representatives) of goddesses (daivatapratimd), he shall be fined
twice as much.

* When the king punishes an innocent man, he shall throw into
water dedicating to god Varuna a fine equal to thirty times the
unjust imposition; and this amount shall afterwards be distributed
among the Brdhmans.

* By this act, the king will be free from the sin of unjust imposition;
for king Varuna is the ruler of sinners among men.

[Thus ends Chapter XIII, “Punishment for violating justice” in
Book IV, “The Removal of Thoms” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of the ninetieth chapter from the beginning. With this ends the
fourth Book, “The removal of of thorns” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 253-296.

335
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book V, "The Conduct of

Courtiers”

CHAPTER 1. CONCERNING THE AWARDS OF
PUNISHMENTS.

MEASURES necessary to remove the thorns of public peace
both in fortified cities and country parts have been dealt with. We
shall now proceed to treat of measures to suppress treason against
the king and his kingdom.

With regard to those chiefs who, though living by service
under the king, are inimically disposed towards him, or have taken
the side of his enemy, a spy with secret mission or one in the guise
of an ascetic and devoted to the king's cause shall set to work as
described before; or a spy trained in the art of sowing the seeds of
dissension may set to work, as will be described in connection with
the ‘Invasion of an enemy's villages.’

The king in the interests of righteousness may inflict
punishment in secret on those courtiers or confederacy of chiefs
who are dangerous to the safety of the kingdom and who cannot be
put down in open daylight.

A spy may instigate the brother of a seditious minister and
with necessary inducements, take him to the king for an interview.
The king, having conferred upon him the title to possess and enjoy
the property of his seditious brother, may cause him to attack his
brother; and when he murders his brother with a weapon or with
poison, he shall be put to death in the same spot under the plea that
he is a parricide.

The same measure will explain the proceedings to be taken

336
Kautilya's Arthashastra

against a seditious Pdrasava (one who is begotten by a Brdhman
on Siidra wife), and a seditious son of a woman-servant.

Or instigated by a spy, the brother of a seditious minister may
put forward his claim for inheritance. While the claimant is lying at
night at the door of the house of the seditious minister or
elsewhere, a fiery spy (tishna) may murder him and declare "Alas!
the claimant for inheritance is thus murdered (by his brother).”
Then taking the side of the injured party, the king may punish the
other (the seditious minister).

Spies in the presence of a seditious minister may threaten to
beat his brother claiming inheritance. Then "while the claimant is
lying at the door of, etc.” .............. as before.

The same proceedings will explain the quarrel fraudulently
caused to crop up between any two seditious ministers, in whose
family a son or a father has had sexual intercourse with a
daughter-in-law, or a brother with the wife of another brother.

A spy may flatter to the vanity of a seditious minister's son, of
gentle manners and dignified conduct by telling him "Though thou
art the king's son, thou art kept here in fear of enemies.” The king
may secretly honour this deluded person and tell him that
"apprehending danger from the minister, I have put off thy
installation, though thou hast attained the age of heir apparent.”
Then the spy may instigate him to murder the minister. The task
being accomplished, he, too, may be put to death in the same spot
under the plea that he is a parricide.

A mendicant woman, having captivated the wife of a
seditious minister by administering such medicines as excite the
feelings of love, may through that wife contrive to poison the
minister.

337
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Failing these measures, the king may send a seditious
minister with an army of inefficient soldiers and fiery spies to put
down a rebellious wild tribe or a village, or to set up a new
superintendent of countries or of boundaries in a locality bordering
upon a wilderness, or to bring under control a highly-rebellious
city, or to fetch a caravan bringing in the tribute due to the king
from a neighbouring country. In an affray (that ensues in
consequence of the above mission) either by day or at night, the
fiery spies, or spies under the guise of robbers (pratirodhaka) may
murder the minister and declare that he was killed in the battle.

While marching against an enemy or being engaged in sports,
the king may send for his seditious ministers for an interview.
While leading the ministers to the king, fiery spies with concealed
weapons shall, in the middle enclosure of the king's pavilion, offer
themselves to be searched for admittance into the interior, and,
when caught, with their weapons by the door-keepers, declare
themselves to be the accomplices of the seditious ministers.
Having made this affair known to the public, the door-keepers shall
put the ministers to death, and in the place of the fiery spies, some
others are to be hanged.

While engaged in sports outside the city, the king may honour
his seditious ministers with accommodation close to his own. A
woman of bad character under the guise of the queen may be
caught in the apartment of these ministers and steps may be taken
against them as before.

A sauce-maker or a sweetmeat-maker may request of a
seditious minister some sauce and sweetmeat by flattering
him--"thou alone art worthy of such things.” Having mixed those
two things and half a cup of water with poison, he may substitute
those things in the luncheon (of the king) outside the city. Having
made this event known to the public, the king may put them (the

338
Kautilya's Arthashastra

minister and the cook) to death under the plea that they are
poisoners.

If a seditious minister is addicted to witchcraft, a spy under
the guise of an accomplished wizard may make him believe that by
manifesting (in witchcraft) any one of the beautiful things,--a pot
containing an alligator, or a tortoise or crab--he can attain his
desired end. While, with this belief, he is engaged in the act of
witchcraft, a spy may murder him either by poisoning him or by
striking him with an iron bar, and declare that he brought his own
death by his proclivity to witchcraft.

A spy under the guise of a physician may make a seditious
minister believe that he is suffering from a fatal or incurable
disease and contrive to poison him while prescribing medicine and
diet to him.

Spies under the guise of sauce-makers and sweet
meat-makers may, when opportunity occurs, contrive to poison
him.

Such are the secret measures to get rid of seditious persons.

As to measures to get rid of seditious persons conspiring
against both the king and his kingdom: --

When a seditious person is to be got rid of, another seditious
person with an army of inefficient soldiers and fiery spies may be
sent with the mission: "Go out into this fort or country and raise an
army or some revenue; deprive a courtier of his gold; bring by
force the daughter of a courtier; build a fort; open a garden;
construct a road for traffic; set up a new village; exploit a mine;
form forest-preserves for timber or elephants; set up a district or a
boundary; and arrest and capture those who prevent your work or
do not give you help.” Similarly the other party may be instructed

339
Kautilya's Arthashastra

to curb the spirit of the above person. When a quarrel arises
between the two parties at work, fiery spies under cover may throw
their weapons and murder the seditious person; and others are to be
arrested and punished for the crime.

When with reference to boundaries, field-produce, and
boundaries of houses, or with reference to any damage done to
things, instruments, crops, and beasts of burden or on occasions of
witnessing spectacles and processions, any dispute, real or caused
by fiery spies, arises in seditious towns, villages, or families, fiery
spies may hurl weapons and say: "This is what is done to them who
quarrel with this man"; and for this offence others may be
punished.

When there arises a quarrel among seditious persons, fiery
spies may set fire to their fields, harvest-grounds, and houses, hurl
weapons on their relatives, friends and beasts of burden, and say
that they did so at the instigation of the seditious; and for this
offence others may be punished.

Spies may induce seditious persons in forts or in country parts
to be each other's guests at a dinner in which poisoners may
administer poison; and for this offence others may be punished.

A mendicant woman may delude a seditious chief of a district
into the belief that the wife, daughter, or daughter-in-law of
another seditious chief of another district loves the former. She
may take the jewellery which the deluded chief gives her (for
delivery to the wife, daughter, etc.), and, presenting it before the
other chief, narrate that this chief in the pride of his youth makes
love to the other's wife, daughter, or daughter-in-law. When at
night a duel arises between the two chiefs, etc., as before.

The prince or the commander of the army may confer some
benefit upon such inimical persons as have been cowed down by a

340
Kautilya's Arthashastra

seditious army, and may declare his displeasure against them
afterwards. And then some other persons, who are equally cowed
down by another seditious army of the king, may be sent against
the former along with an army of inefficient soldiers and fiery
spies. Thus all the measures to get rid of seditious persons are of
the same type.

Whoever among the sons of the seditious persons thus put
down shows no perturbance of mind shall receive his father's
property. It is only thus that the whole of the country will loyally
follow the sons and grandsons of the king, and will be free from all
troubles caused by men.

* Possessed of forbearance and apprehending no disturbance
either in the present or future, the king may award punishments in
secret both upon his own subjects and those who uphold the
enemy's cause.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “Concerning the Awards of Punishments” in
Book V. “The Conduct of Courtiers” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the ninety-first chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. REPLENISHMENT OF THE TREASURY.

THE king who finds himself in a great financial trouble and
needs money, may collect (revenue by demand). In such parts of
his country as depend solely upon rain for water and are rich in
grain, he may demand of his subjects one-third or one-fourth of
their grain according to their capacity. He shall never demand of
such of his subjects as live in tracts of middle or low quality; nor of
people who are of great help in the construction of fortifications,

341
Kautilya's Arthashastra

gardens, buildings, roads for traffic, colonisation of waste lands,
exploitation of mines, and formation of forest-preserves for timber
and, elephants; nor of people who live on the border of his
kingdom or who have not enough subsistence. He shall, on the
other hand, supply with grain and cattle those who colonise waste
lands. He may purchase for gold one-fourth of what remains, after
deducting as much of the grain as is required for seeds and
subsistence of his subjects. He shall avoid the property of forest
tribes, as well as of Brdhmans learned in the Vedas (srotriya). He
may purchase this, too, offering favourable price (to the owners).
Failing these measures, the servants of the collector-general may
prevail upon the peasantry to raise summer crops. Saying that
double the amount of fines will be levied from those who are guilty
(among peasants), they (the king's employees) shall sow seeds in
sowing seasons. When crops are ripe, they may beg a portion of
vegetable and other ripe produce except what is gleaned in the
form of vegetables and grains. They shall avoid the grains scattered
in harvest-fields, so that they may be utilised in making offerings to
gods and ancestors on occasions of worship, in feeding cows, or for
the subsistence of mendicants and village employees
(gralmabhritaka).

Whoever conceals his own grain shall pay a fine of eight
times the amount in each kind; and whoever steals the crops of
another person shall pay a fine of fifty times the amount, provided
the robber belongs to the same community (svavarga); but if he is a
foreigner, he shall be put to death. They (the king's employees)
may demand of cultivators one-fourth of their grain, and one-sixth
of forest produce (vanya) and of such commodities as cotton, wax,
fabrics, barks of trees, hemp, wool, silk, medicines, sandal,
flowers, fruits, vegetables, firewood, bamboos, flesh, and dried
flesh. They may also take one-half of all ivory and skins of
animals, and punish with the first amercement those who trade in
any article without obtaining a license from the king. So much for

342
Kautilya's Arthashastra

demands on cultivators.

Merchants dealing in gold, silver, diamonds, precious stones,
pearls, coral, horses, and elephants shall pay 50 karas. Those that
trade in cotton threads, clothes, copper, brass, bronze, sandal,
medicines, and liquor shall pay 40 karas. Those that trade in grains,
liquids, metals (loha), and deal with carts shall pay 30 karas. Those
that carry on their trade in glass (kdcha); and also artisans of fine
workmanship shall pay 20 karas. Articles of inferior workmanship,
as well as those who keep prostitutes, shall pay 10 karas. Those
that trade in firewood, bamboos, stones, earthen-pots, cooked rice,
and vegetables shall pay 5 karas. Dramatists and prostitutes shall
pay half of their wages. The entire property of goldsmiths shall be
taken possession of; and no offence of theirs shall be forgiven; for
they carry on their fraudulent trade while pretending at the same
time to be honest and innocent. So much about demands on
merchants.

Persons rearing cocks and pigs shall surrender to the
Government half of their stock of animals. Those that rear inferior
animals shall give one-sixth. Those that keep cows, buffaloes,
mules, asses, and camels shall give one-tenth (of their live-stock).
Those who maintain prostitutes (bandhakiposhaka), shall, with the
help of women noted for their beauty and youth in the service of
the king, collect revenue. So much about demands on herdsmen.

Such demands shall be made only once and never twice.
When such demands are not made, the collector general shall seek
subscriptions from citizens and country people alike under false
pretences of carrying this or that kind of business. Persons taken in
concert shall publicly pay handsome donations and with this
example, the king may demand of others among his subjects. Spies
posing as citizens shall revile those who pay less. Wealthy persons
may be requested to give as much of their gold as they can. Those

343
Kautilya's Arthashastra

who, of their own accord or with the intention of doing good, offer
their wealth to the king shall be honoured with a rank in the court,
an umbrella, or a turban or some ornaments in return for their gold.
Spies, under the guise of sorcerers, shall, under the pretence
of ensuring safety, carry away the money, not only of the society of
heretics and of temples, but also of a dead man and of a man whose
house is burnt, provided that it is not enjoyable by Brdhmans.

The Superintendent of Religious Institutions may collect in
one place the various kinds of property of the gods of fortified
cities and country parts and carry away the property (to the king's
treasury).

Or having on some night set up a god or an altar, or having
opened a sacred place of ascetics or having pointed out an evil
omen, the king may collect subsistence under the pretence of
holding processions and congregations (to avert calamities).

Or else he shall proclaim the arrival of gods, by pointing out
to the people any of the sacred trees in the king's garden which has
produced untimely flowers and fruits.

Or by causing a false panic owing to the arrival of an evil
spirit on a tree in the city, wherein a man is hidden making all sorts
of devilish noises, the king's spies, under the guise of ascetics, may
collect money (with a view to propitiate the evil spirit and send it
back).

Or spies may call upon spectators to see a serpent with
numberless heads in a well connected with a subterranean passage
and collect fees from them for the sight. Or they may place in a
borehole made in the body of an image of a serpent, or in a hole in
the corner of a temple, or in the hollow of an ant-hill, a cobra,
which is, by diet, rendered unconscious, and call upon credulous

344
Kautilya's Arthashastra

spectators to see it (on payment of a certain amount of fee). As to
persons who are not by nature credulous, spies may sprinkle over
or give a drink of, such sacred water as is mixed with anasthetic
ingredients and attribute their insensibility to the curse of gods. Or
by causing an outcast person (dbhitydktd) to be bitten by a cobra,
spies may collect revenue under the pretext of undertaking
remedial measures against ominous phenomena.

Or one of the king's spies in the garb of a merchant, may
become a partner of a rich merchant and carry on trade in concert
with him. As soon as a considerable amount of money has been
gathered as sale-proceeds, deposits and loans, he may cause
himself to be robbed of the amount.

This will explain what the examiner of coins and the
state-goldsmith may also do.

Or else a spy, in the garb of a rich merchant, or a real rich
merchant famous for his vast commerce, may borrow or take on
pledge vast quantities of gold, silver, and other commodities, or
borrow from corporations bar gold, or coined gold for various
kinds of merchandise to be procured from abroad. After having
done this he may allow himself to be robbed of it the same night.

Prostitute spies under the garb of chaste women, may cause
themselves to be enamoured of persons who are seditious. No
sooner are the seditious persons seen within the abode of the
female spies than they shall be seized and their property
confiscated to the Government. Or whenever a quarrel arises
between any two seditious parties of the same family, poisoners,
previously engaged for the purpose, may administer poison to one
party; and the other party may be accused of the offence and
deprived of their. property.

345
Kautilya's Arthashastra

An outcast, under the guise of a high-born man, may claim
from a seditious person a large amount of money professed to have
been placed in the latter's custody by the claimant, or a large debt
outstanding against the seditious person, or a share of parental
property. (An outcast) may pretend to be the slave of a seditious
person; and he may represent the wife, daughter, or
daughter-in-law of the seditious person as a slave-woman or as his
own wife; and when the outcast is lying at the door of the seditious
person's house at night or is living elsewhere, a fiery spy may
murder him and declare:--"The claimant (of his own property or
wife) has been thus killed.” And for this offence others (i.e., the
seditious person and his followers) shall be deprived of their

property.

Or a spy, under the garb of an ascetic, may offer inducements
to a seditious person to acquire more wealth by taking in aid the art
of witchcraft, and say:--"I am proficient in such witchcraft as
brings inexhaustible wealth, or entitles a man to get admission into
the king's palace, or can win the love of any woman, or can put an
end to the life of one's enemy, or can lengthen the duration of one's
life, or can give a son to any one, if desired.” If the seditious person
shows his desire to carry on the process of witchcraft securing
wealth, the spy may make rich offerings, consisting of flesh, wine,
and scent to the deity near an altar in a burial-ground wherein a
dead body of a man or of a child with a little quantity of money has
been previously hidden. After the performance of worship is over,
the hidden treasure may be dug out and the seditious person, may
be told that as the offerings fell short, the treasure is
proportionately small; that the richest of offerings should be made
to acquire vast amount of treasure, and that he may purchase with
the newly-acquired wealth rich offerings. Then he may be caught
in the very act of purchasing commodities for offering.

A female spy, under the garb of a bereaved mother, may (in

346
Kautilya's Arthashastra

connection with the above case) raise an alarm, crying that her
child was murdered (for the purposes of witchcraft).

When a seditious person is engaged in sorcery at night or in a
sacrificial performance in a forest, or in sports in a park, fiery spies
may murder him and carry away the corpse as that of an outcast.

Or a spy, under the garb of a servant of a seditious person,
may mix counterfeit coins with the wages (he has received from his
master), and pave the way for his arrest.

Or a spy, under the garb of a goldsmith, may undertake to do
some work in the house of a seditious person, and gather in his
employer's house such instruments as are necessary to manufacture
counterfeit coins.

A spy, under the garb of a physician, may declare a healthy
person of seditious character to be unhealthy (and administer
poison). Or a spy, attending as a servant upon a seditious person
may not only call for an explanation from another fraudulent spy as
to how certain articles necessary for the installation of a king and
also the letters of an enemy came into the possession of his master,
but also volunteer an explanation himself.

Measures such as the above shall be taken only against the
seditious and the wicked and never against others.

* Just as fruits are gathered from a garden as often as they
become ripe, so revenue shall be collected as often as it becomes
ripe. Collection of revenue or of fruits, when unripe, shall never be
carried on, lest their source may be injured, causing immense
trouble.

[Thus ends Chapter II, "Replenishment of the Treasury” in Book
V, "The Conduct of Courtiers" of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End

347
Kautilya's Arthashastra

of the ninety-second chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. CONCERNING SUBSISTENCE TO
GOVERNMENT SERVANTS.

IN accordance with the requirements of his forts and country
parts, the king should fix under one-fourth of the total revenue the
charges of maintaining his servants. He should look to the bodily
comforts of his servants by providing such emoluments as can
infuse in them the spirit of enthusiasm to work. He should not
violate the course of righteousness and wealth.

The sacrificial priest (ritvig), the teacher, the minister, the
priest (purohita), the commander of the army, the heir-apparent
prince, the mother of the king, and the queen shall (each receive)
48,000 (panas per annum). With this amount of subsistence, they
will scarcely yield themselves to temptation and hardly be
discontented.

The door-keeper, the superintendent of the harem
(antarvamsika) the commander (prasdstri), the collector-general,
and the chamberlain, 24,000. With this amount they become
serviceable.

The prince (kumdra), the nurse of the prince, the chief
constable (ndyaka), the officer in charge of the town (paura) the
superintendent of law or commerce (vydvahdrika), the
superintendent of manufactories (karmdntika), members of the
council of ministers, the superintendents of country parts and of
boundaries, 12,000. With this they will be loyal and powerful
supporters of the king's cause.

348
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The chiefs of military corporations, the chiefs of elephants, of
horses, of chariots and of infantry and commissioners
(pradeshtdrah), 8,000. With this amount they can have a good
following in their own communities.

The Superintendents of infantry, of cavalry, of chariots and of
elephants, the guards of timber and elephant forests, 4,000.

The chariot-driver, the physician of the army, the trainer of
horses, the carpenter, (vardhaki), and those who rear animals
(yoniposhaka), 2,000.

The foreteller, the reader of omens, the astrologer, the reader
of Purdnas, the storyteller, the bard (mdgadha), the retinue of the
priest, and all superintendents of departments, 1,000.

Trained soldiers, the staff of accountants and writers, 500.

Musicians (kusilava), 250. Of these, the trumpet-blowers
(tiiryakara) shall get twice as much wages as others. Artisans and
carpenters, 120.

Servants in charge of quadrupeds and bipeds, workmen doing
miscellaneous work, attendants upon the royal person,
body-guards, and the procurer of free labourers shall receive a
salary of 60 panas.

The honourable play-mate of the king (dryayukta), the
elephant-driver, the sorcerer (manavaka), miners of mountains
(sailakhanaka), all kinds of attendants, teachers, and learned men
shall have honorarium ranging from 500 to 1,000 (panas)
according to their merit.

A messenger of middle quality shall receive 10 panas for

349
Kautilya's Arthashastra

each yojana he travels; and twice as much when he travels from 10
to 100 yojanas.

Whoever represents the king in the rdjasiya and other
sacrifices shall get three times as much as is paid to others who are
equal to him in learning; and the charioteer of the king (in the
sacrifices), 1,000.

Spies such as the fradulent (kdpatika), the indifferent
(uddsthita), the house-holder, the merchant, and the ascetic 1,000.

The village-servant (grdmabhritaka), fiery spies, poisoners
and mendicant women, 500 (panas).

Servants leading the spies, 250 or in proportion to the work
done by them.

Superintendents of a hundred or a thousand coinmunities
(varga) shall regulate the subsistence, wages, profits, appointinent,
and transference (vikshepa), of the men under them.

There shall be no transference of officers employed to guard
the royal buildings, forts, and country parts. The chief officers
employed to superintend the above places shall be many and shall
permanently hold the same office.

The sons and wives of those who die while on duty shall get
subsistence and wages. Infants, aged persons, or deceased persons
related to the deceased servants shall also be shown favour. On
occasions of funerals, sickness, or child-birth, the king shall give
presentations to his servants concerned therein.

When wanting in money, the king may give forest produce,
cattle, or fields along with a small amount of money. If he is
desirous to colonise waste lands, he shall make payments in money

350
Kautilya's Arthashastra

alone; and if he is desirous of regulating the affairs of all villages
equally, then he shall give no village to any (of his servants).

Thus the king shall not only maintain his servants, but also
increase their subsistence and wages in consideration of their
learning and work.

Substituting one ddhaka for the salar of 60 panas payment in
gold may be commuted for that in kind.

Footmen, horses, chariots, and elephants shall be given
necessary training in the art of war at sunrise, on all days but those
of conjunction (of planets). on these occasions of training, the king
shall ever be present and witness their exercise.

Weapons and armour shall be entered into the armoury only
after they are marked with the king's seal.

Persons with weapons shall not be allowed to move anywhere
unless they are permitted by a passport.

When weapons are either lost or spoilt, the superintendent
shall pay double their value; an account of the weapons that are
destroyed shall be kept up.

Boundary-guards shall take away the weapons and armour
possessed by caravans unless the latter are provided with a passport
to travel with weapons.

When starting on a military tour, the king shall put his army in
action. On such occasions, spies, under the garb of merchants, shall
supply to military stations all kinds of merchandise for double the
quantity of the same to be repaid in future. Thus not only is there
afforded an opportunity for the sale of the king's merchandise, but

351
Kautilya's Arthashastra

also is there a way opened for a good return for the wages paid.

Thus, when both the receipts and expenditure are properly
cared for, the king will never find himself in financial or military
difficulties.

Such are the alternatives with regard to subsistence and
wages.

* Spies, prostitutes, artisans, singers, and aged military
officers shall vigilantly examine the pure or impure conduct of
military men.

[Thus ends Chapter III, "Concerning Subsistence to Government
Servants" in Book V, “The Conduct of Courtiers” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the ninety-third chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER IV. THE CONDUCT OF A COURTIER.

WHOEVER possesses enough experience of the world and its
affairs may, through the influence of an interested friend, seek the
favour of a king who is endowed with amiable qualities and is
possessed of all the elements of sovereignty. He may court the
favour of any king provided he thinks:--Just as I am in need of a
patron, so is this king possessed of a taste for good advice and is of
amiable character. He may even court the favour of such a king as
is poor and destitute of the elements of sovereignty, but never, of
such a one as is of a depraved character: whoever, as a king, is
destitute of good temper and amiable character cannot, by reason
of his habitual hatred of the science of polity and an inborn
proclivity to evil ways, maintain his sovereignty, though he is

352
Kautilya's Arthashastra

possessed of immense sovereign power.

Having obtained admittance to an amiable king, he shall give
the king instructions in sciences. Absence of contradiction from the
king will render his position secure. When his opinion is sought
about present or future schemes needing much thought and
consideration, he may boldly and sensibly, and with no fear of
contradiction from the assembly of ministers, pronounce his
opinion so as to be in harmony with the principles of righteousness
and economy. When required, he may answer questions on points
of righteousness and economy (and tell the king):

"Following the rule that there should be no delay in putting
down by force even a strong confederacy of wicked people, you
should apply force against the wicked, if they have a strong
support; do not despise my advice, character and secrets; and by
means of gestures, 1 shall prevent you from inflicting punishments
on any one, when you are going to do so either willfully or under
provocation.”

With such agreements with the king, he (a courtier) may enter
on the duty assigned to him. He shall sit by the side of, and close to,
the king and far from the seat of another courtier. He shall avoid
speaking slyly against the opinion of any member of the assembly;
he shall never make incredible or false statements; nor loud
laughter with no cause for jest, and loud noise and spittle. He shall
also avoid talking to another in secret, mutual conversation with
another in the assembly (of ministers), appearing in royal dress in
the public, haughtiness, buffoonery, open request for gems and
promotions, seeing with one eye, biting the lips, brow-beating,
interrupting the king while speaking, enmity with a strong party,
association with women, pimps, messengers of foreign kings,
enemies, inimical parties, dismissed officers, and wicked people,
stubborn adherence to a single purpose, and contact with any

353
Kautilya's Arthashastra

confederacy of men.

* Without losing the opportune moments, he should speak of the
king's interest; of his own interest when in company with persons
friendly to him; and of others interests in a suitable time and place,
and in conformity to the principles of righteousness and economy.
* When asked, he should tell the king what is both good and
pleasing, but not what is bad, though pleasing; if the king is pleased
to listen, he may secretly tell what, though unpleasant, is good.

* He may even keep silence, but. should never describe what is
hateful; by abstaining from talking of what the king hates, even
undesirable persons have become powerful when, seeing that the
king likes only pleasant things without caring for their evil
consequences, they have followed his will.

* While laughing in jest, he should avoid loud laughter; he shall
avoid evil aspersions against others, nor ascribe evil to others; he
shall forgive evil done to himself and have as much forbearance as
the earth.

* Self-protection shall be the first and constant thought of a wise
man; for the life of a man under the service of a king is aptly
compared to life in fire; whereas fire burns a part or the whole of
the bodys, if at all, the king has the power either to destroy or to
advance the whole family, consisting of sons and wives, of his
servants.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, “The Conduct of a Courtier” in Book V,
“The Conduct of Courtiers” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
the ninety-fourth chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. TIME-SERVING.

354
Kautilya's Arthashastra

WHEN employed as a minister, he (the courtier) shall show
the net revenue that remains after all kinds of expenditure are met
with. He shall also give the exact particulars--as this is thus--of
whatever work is external, internal, secret, open, costly, or
negligible. He shall follow the king in his pursuits after hunting,
gambling, drinking, and sexual pleasures. Ever attending upon the
king, he shall, by flattery, endeavour to arrest his fall into evil
habits and save him from the intrigues, plots. and deceptions of
enemies. He shall also endeavour to read the mind and appearance
of the king.

By way of collecting his wandering thoughts into a resolve,
the king exhibits in his appearance and movements his inclination,
anger, pleasure, sorrow, determination, fear, and change in the
pairs of opposite feelings.

"By cognising wisdom in others, he is pleased; he attends to
the speech of others; he gives a seat; allows himself to be seen in
private; does not suspect in places of suspicion; takes delight in
conversation; spontaneously looks to things without being
reminded; tolerates what is said agreeably to reason; orders with
smiling face; touches with the hand; does not laugh at what is
commendable; commends the qualities of another behind him;
remembers (the courtier) while taking luncheon; engages himself
in sports accompanied by (the courtier); consults (the courtier)
when in trouble; honours the followers of the courtier; reveals the
secret; honours the courtier more and more; gives him wealth; and
averts his troubles;--these are the signs of the king's satisfaction
(with the courtier).”

The reverse of the above indicates his (the king's) displeasure.
Still, we shall describe them in plain terms:--

Angry appearance when the courtier is in sight; evading or
refusal to hear his speech; no inclination to give him a seat or to see

355
Kautilya's Arthashastra

him; change in syllables and accents while talking to him; seeing
with one eye; brow-beating; biting the lips; rise of sweat; hard
breathing and smiling with no palpable cause; talking to himself;
sudden bending or raising of the body; touching the body or the
seat of another; molestation to another; contempt of learning, caste,
and country (of the courtier); condemnation of a colleague of equal
defects; condemnation of a man of opposite defects; condemnation
of his opponent; failure to acknowledge his good deeds;
enumeration of his bad deeds; attention to whoever enters into the
chamber; too much gift; uttering falsehood; change in the conduct
and attitude of visitors to the king; nay, the courtier shall also note
the change in the life of animals other than men.

Kdtydyana holds that this (king) showers his favours
broad-cast.

Kaninka Bhdradvdja says that Krauncha (a bird) has moved
from right to left.

Dirgha Chdrayana says that this (king) is (like) a grass.
Ghotamukha says that (he is like) a wet cloth.
Kinjalka says that (he is like) an elephant pouring over water.

Pisuna is of opinion that one should declare him to be a
chariot-horse.

The son of Pisuna says that mortification ensues when his
opponent is courted.

When wealth and honour are discontinued, such a king may
be abandoned; or by recognising the character of the king as well as
his own defects, he may rectify himself ; or he may seek the

356
Kautilya's Arthashastra

protection of one of the best friends of the king.

* Living with the king's friend, the courtier has to endeavour
to remove, through the medium of his own friends, the defects of
his master, and then come back to his original place, no matter
whether the king is alive or dead.

[Thus ends Chapter V “Time-serving” in Book V, “The Conduct of
Courtiers” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the ninety-fifth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER VI. CONSOLIDATION OF THE KINGDOM
AND ABSOLUTE SOVEREIGNTY.

THE minister shall thus avert the calamities in which the king
is involved; long before the apprehended death of the king, he
shall, in concert with his friends and followers allow visitors to the
king once in a month or two (and avoid their visits on other
occasions) under the plea that the king is engaged in performing
such rites as are calculated to avert national calamities, or are
destructive of enemies, or capable of prolonging life or of
procuring a son.

On appropriate occasions, he may show a pseudo-king not
only to the people, but also to messengers coming from friends or
enemies; and this (false) king shall make the minister his
mouth-piece in conversing with them as deserved. And through the
medium of the gate-keeper and the officer in charge of the harem,
the minister shall (pretend to) receive the orders of the king.
Displeasure or mercy to wrong-doers shall be shown only
indirectly.

357
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Both the treasury and the army shall be kept under the
command of two reliable and confidential persons and in a single
locality, either within the fort or at the boundary of the kingdom.

Cognates, princes, and other chiefs of the royal family may be
employed in works such as the capture of a chief who, employed as
a commander of a fort or the tracts of wilderness, has turned
inimical along with a strong band of supporters; or they may be
sent on an expedition full of difficulties, or to visit the family of the
king's friend.

Whoever, among the neighbouring kings, seems to threaten
with an invasion may be invited for some festival, marriage,
capture of elephants, purchase of horses, or of merchandise, or for
taking possession of some lands ceded to him, and captured; or
such an enemy may be kept at bay by an ally till an agreement of
not condemnable nature is made with him; or he may be made to
incur the displeasure of wild tribes or of his enemies; or whoever
among his nearest relatives is kept under guard may be promised a
portion of his territory and set against him.

Or with the help of nobles and princes of the king's family, the
minister may have the heir-apparent installed and show him to the
public.

Or having, as pointed out in the chapter concerning the
awards of punishments, removed the thorns of the kingdom, he
may conduct the administration.

Or if a chief among the neighbouring kings seems to give
trouble, the minister may invite him, saying "come here and I shall
make thee king," and then put him to death; or he may be kept at
bay by taking such measures as can ward off dangers.

Or having gradually placed the burden of administration on

358
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the shoulders of the heir-apparent, the minister may announce the
death of the king to the public.

In case of the king's demise in an enemy's land, the minister,
having brought about an agreement between the enemy and a
friend pretending to be an enemy of the dead king, may withdraw
himself; or having installed in the king's fort any one of the
neighbouring kings, he may withdraw himself; or having installed
the heir-apparent, he may set the army against the enemy; and
when attacked by the enemy, he may take, as detailed elsewhere,
such measures as can ward off dangers.

"Thus," says Kautilya, "the minister shall invest himself with
the powers of sovereignty.”

"Not so," says Bhdradvdja, "the king lying on his death-bed,
the minister may set up the princes and other chiefs of the royal
family against one another or against other chiefs. Whoever attacks
the kingdom may be put to death under the plea of disturbance and
annoyance to the people; or having secretly punished the chief
rebels of the royal family and brought them under his control, the
minister shall himself take possession of the kingdom, for on
account of the kingdom the father hates his sons, and sons their
father; why then should the minister who is the sole prop of the
kingdom (be an exception to it)? There-fore he shall never discard
what has, of its own accord, fallen into his hands; for it is a general
talk among the people that a woman making love of her own
accord will, when discarded, curse the man.

* "An opportunity will only once offer itself to a man who is
waiting for it, and will not come a second time when he may be
desirous of accomplishing his work."

"But it is,” says Kautilya, "unrighteous to do an act which

359
Kautilya's Arthashastra

excites popular fury; nor is it an accepted rule. He shall, therefore,
install in the kingdom such a son of the king as is possessed of
amiable qualities. In the absence of a prince of good character, he
may place before himself a wicked prince, or a princess, or the
pregnant queen, and tell the other ministers:--“This is your caste
(kshepa); look to the father of this (boy) as well as to your own
valour and descent; this (boy) is merely a flag; and yourselves are
the lords; pray, how shall I act’?"

As he is saying this, others, taken in confidence before, shall
say in reply:--"Who else than the one of your lead is capable of
protecting the mass of the people of the four castes of the king" ?
Then the other ministers will certainly agree to it. Accordingly he
shall install a prince, a princess, or the pregnant queen, and show
him or her to all the royal relations as well as to the messengers
coming from friends or enemies. He shall provide the ministers and
military officers with increased subsistence and salary, promising
them that "This (boy) will, after attaining full age, increase your
emolument still more." He shall likewise promise the chief officers
in charge of the forts and country parts as well as the parties of both
the friends and enemies. He shall then take necessary steps to
educate and train the prince.

Or he may install a child begotten on the princess by a man
of the same caste.

He shall keep as a representative of the prince one who is of
the same family, of little valour and of beautiful appearance, lest
the mother's mind may be agitated with wild apprehensions. He
shall justly protect her. He shall not provide himself with luxurious
means of enjoyment. As to the king, he may provide him with new
chariots, horses, jewels, dress, women and palaces.

* When the prince comes of age, he may request the prince to

360
Kautilya's Arthashastra

relieve him from the intellectual worry. He may abandon the king,
if he (the king) is displeased; and follow him if he is pleased.

* If he is disgusted with the ministerial life, he may go to a forest or
a long sacrifice, after having informed the queen of the safeguards
and persons that are employed to bring up the prince.

* Even if the king is held by the chiefs under their influence, the
minister may, through the medium of the king's favourites, teach
him the principles of polity with illustrations, taken from the
Itihdsa and Purdna.

* Having taken the garb of an accomplished ascetic, the minister
may ingratiate himself with the king; and having brought the king
under his influence, he may take coercive measure against the
seditious.

[Thus ends Chapter VI "Consolidation of the Kingdom and
Absolute Sovereignty” in Book V, “The Conduct of Courtiers™ of
the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the ninety-sixth chapter from
the beginning. With this, ends the fifth Book “The Conduct of
Courtiers” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 297-318.

361
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book VI: The Source of Sovereign
States

CHAPTER I. THE ELEMENTS OF SOVEREIGNTY.

THE king, the minister, the country, the fort, the treasury, the
army and the friend are the elements of sovereignty.

Of these, the best qualities of the king are:--

Born of a high family, godly, possessed of valour, seeing
through the medium of aged persons, virtuous, truthful, not of a
contradictory nature, grateful, having large aims, highly
enthusiastic, not addicted to procrastination, powerful to control
his neighbouring kings, of resolute mind, having an assembly of
ministers of no mean quality, and possessed of a taste for
discipline;--these are the qualities of an inviting nature.

Inquiry, hearing, perception, retention in memory, reflection,
deliberation, inference and steadfast adherence to conclusions are
the qualities of the intellect.

Valour, determination of purpose, quickness, and probity are
the aspects of enthusiasm.

Possessed of a sharp intellect, strong memory, and keen
mind, energetic, powerful, trained in all kinds of arts, free from
vice, capable of paying in the same coin by way of awarding
punishments or rewards, possessed of dignity, capable of taking
remedial measures against dangers, possessed of foresight, ready
to avail himself of opportunities when afforded in respect of place,

362
Kautilya's Arthashastra

time, and manly efforts, clever enough to discern the causes
necessitating the cessation of treaty or war with an enemy, or to lie
in wait keeping treaties, obligations and pledges, or to avail himself
of his enemy's weak points, making jokes with no loss of dignity or
secrecy, never brow-beating and casting haughty and stern looks,
free from passion, anger, greed, obstinacy, fickleness, haste and
back-biting habits, talking to others with a smiling face, and
observing customs as taught by aged persons;--such is the nature of
self-possession.

The qualifications of a minister have been described in the
beginning, middle, and at the close of the work.

Possessed of capital cities both in the centre and the
extremities of the kingdom, productive of subsistence not only to
its own people, but also to outsiders on occasions of calamities,
repulsive to enemies, powerful enough to put down neighbouring
kings, free from miry, rocky, uneven, and desert tracts as well as
from conspirators, tigers, wild beasts, and large tracts of
wilderness, beautiful to look at, containing fertile lands, mines,
timber and elephant forests, and pasture grounds, artistic,
containing hidden passages, full of cattle, not depending upon rain
for water, possessed of land and waterways, rich in various kinds
of commercial articles, capable of bearing the burden of a vast
army and heavy taxation, inhabited by agriculturists of good and
active character, full of intelligent masters and servants, and with a
population noted for its loyalty and good character;--these are the
qualities of a good country.

The excellent qualities of forts have already been described.

Justly obtained either by inheritance or by self-acquisition,
rich in gold and silver, filled with an abundance of big gems of

363
Kautilya's Arthashastra

various colours and of gold coins, and capable to withstand
calamities of long duration is the best treasury.

Coming down directly, from father and grandfather (of the
king), ever strong, obedient, happy in keeping their sons and wives
well contented, not averse to making a long sojourn, ever and
everywhere invincible, endowed with the power of endurance,
trained in fighting various kinds of battles, skillful in handling
various forms of weapons, ready to share in the weal or woe of the
king, and consequently not falling foul with him, and purely
composed of soldiers of Kshatriya caste, is the best army.

Coming down directly from father and grandfather,
long-standing, open to conviction, never falling foul, and capable
of making preparations for war quickly and on a large scale, is the
best friend.

Not born of a royal family, greedy, possessed of a mean
assembly of ministers, with disloyal subjects, ever doing
unrighteous acts, of loose character, addicted to mean pleasures,
devoid of enthusiasm, trusting to fate, indiscreet in action,
powerless, helpless, impotent, and ever injurious, is the worst
enemy. Such an enemy is easily uprooted.

* Excepting the enemy, these seven elements, possessed of
their excellent characteristics are said to be the limb-like elements
of sovereignty.

* A wise king can make even the poor and miserable elements
of his sovereignty happy and prosperous; but a wicked king will
surely destroy the most prosperous and loyal elements of his
kingdom.

364
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* Hence a king of unrighteous character and of vicious habits
will, though he is an emperor, fall a prey either to the fury of his
own subjects or to that of his enemies.

* But a wise king, trained in politics, will, though he
possesses a small territory, conquer the whole earth with the help
of the best-fitted elements of his sovereignty, and will never be
defeated.

[Thus, ends Chapter I "The Elements of Sovereignty” in Book VI,
"The Source of Sovereign States” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of the ninety-seventh chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. CONCERNING PEACE AND EXERTION.

ACQUISITION and security (of property) are dependent
upon peace and industry.

Efforts to achieve the results of works undertaken is industry
(vydydma).

Absence of disturbance to the enjoyment of the results
achieved from works is peace.

The application of the six-fold royal policy is the source of
peace and industry.

Deterioration, stagnation, and progress are the three aspects
of position.

Those causes of human make which affect position are policy
and impolicy (raya and apanaya); fortune and misfortune (aya and
anaya) are providential causes. Causes, both human and
providential, govern the world and its affairs.

365
Kautilya's Arthashastra

What is unforeseen is providential; here, the attainment of
that desired end which seemed almost lost is (termed) fortune.

What is anticipated is human; and the attainment of a desired
end as anticipated is (due to policy).

What produces unfavourable results is impolicy. This can be
foreseen; but misfortune due to providence cannot be known.

The king who, being possessed of good character and
best-fitted elements of sovereignty, is the fountain of policy, is
termed the conqueror.

The king who is situated anywhere immediately on the
circumference of the conqueror’s territory is termed the enemy.

The king who is likewise situated close to the enemy, but
separated from the conqueror only by the enemy, is termed the
friend (of the conqueror).

A neighbouring foe of considerable power is styled an
enemy; and when he is involved in calamities or has taken himself
to evil ways, he becomes assailable; and when he has little or no
help, he becomes destructible; otherwise (i.e., when he is provided
with some help), he deserves to be harassed or reduced. Such are
the aspects of an enemy.

In front of the conqueror and close to his enemy, there happen
to be situated kings such as the conqueror’s friend, next to him, the
enemy's friend, and next to the last, the conqueror’s friend's friend,
and next, the enemy's friend's friend.

In the rear of the conqueror, there happen to be situated a
rearward enemy ( pdrshnigrdha), a rearward friend (dkranda), an

366
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ally of the rearward enemy (pdrshnigrdhdsdrd), and an ally of the
rearward friend (dkranddsdra).

That foe who is equally of high birth and occupies a territory
close to that of the conqueror is a natural enemy; while he who is
merely antagonistic and creates enemies to the conqueror is a
factitious enemy.

He whose friendship is derived from father and grandfather,
and who is situated close to the territory of the immediate enemy of
the conqueror is a natural friend; while he whose friendship is
courted for self-maintenance is an acquired friend.

The king who occupies a territory close to both the conqueror
and his immediate enemy in front and who is capable of helping
both the kings, whether united or disunited, or of resisting either of
them individually is termed a Madhyama (mediatory) king.

He who is situated beyond the territory of any of the above
kings and who is very powerful and capable of helping the enemy,
the conqueror, and the Madhyama king together or individually, or
of resisting any of them individually, is a neutral king
(uddsina),--these are the (twelve) primary kings.

The conqueror, his friend, and his friend's friend are the three
primary kings constituting a circle of states. As each of these three
kings possesses the five elements of sovereignty, such as the
minister, the country, the fort, the treasury, and the army, a circle of
states consists of eighteen elements. Thus, it needs no commentary
to understand that the (three) Circles of States having the enemy
(of the conqueror), the Madhyama king, or the neutral king at the
centre of each of the three circles, are different from that of the
conqueror. Thus there are four primary Circles of States, twelve

367
Kautilya's Arthashastra

kings, sixty elements of sovereignty, and seventy-two elements of
states.

Each of the twelve primary kings shall have their elements of
sovereignty, power, and end. Strength is power, and happiness is
the end.

Strength is of three kinds: power of deliberation is intellectual
strength; the possession of a prosperous treasury and a strong army
is the strength of sovereignty; and martial power is physical
strength.

The end is also of three kinds: that which is attainable by
deliberation is the end of deliberation; that which is attainable by
the strength of sovereignty is the end of sovereignty; and that
which is to be secured by perseverance is the end of martial power.

The possession of power and happiness in a greater degree
makes a king superior to another; in a less degree, inferior; and in
an equal degree, equal. Hence a king shall always endeavor to
augment his own power and elevate his happiness.

A king who is equal to his enemy in the matter of his
sovereign elements shall, in virtue of his own righteous conduct or
with the help of those who are hostile or conspiring against his
enemy, endeavor to throw his enemy’s power into the shade; or if
he thinks:--

"That my enemy, possessed as he is of immense power, will
yet in the near future, hurt the elements of his own sovereignty, by
using contumelious language, by inflicting severe punishments,
and by squandering his wealth; that though attaining success for a
time yet he will blindly take himself to hunting, gambling, drinking
and women; that as his subjects are disaffected, himself powerless

368
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and haughty, I can overthrow him; that when attacked, he will take
shelter with all his paraphernalia into a fort or elsewhere; that
possessed as he is of a strong army, he will yet fall into my hands,
as he has neither a friend nor a fort to help him; that a distant king is
desirous to put down his own enemy, and also inclined to help me
to put down my own assailable enemy when my resources are
poor; or that I may be invited as a Madhyama king,"--for these
reasons the conqueror may allow his enemy to grow in strength and
to attain success for the time being.

* Throwing the circumference of the Circle of States beyond
his friend's territory, and making the kings of those states as the
spokes of that circle, the conqueror shall make himself as the nave
of that circle.

* A reducible or a conquerable enemy will, when placed
between a conqueror and the conqueror's friend, appear to be
growing in strength.

[Thus ends Chapter II "Peace and Exertion " in Book VI, "The
Source of Sovereign States” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
the ninety-eighth chapter from the beginning. With this ends the
seventh Book "The Source of Sovereign States” of the Arthasdstra
of Kautilya.]

369
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book VII, "The End of the Six-Fold
Policy”

CHAPTER 1. THE SIX-FOLD POLICY, AND
DETERMINATION OF DETERIORATION, STAGNATION
AND PROGRESS.

THE Circle of States is the source of the six-fold policy.

My teacher says that peace (sandhi), war (vigraha)
observance of neutrality (dsana), marching (ydna), alliance
(samsraya), and making peace with one and waging war with
another are the six forms of state-policy.

But Vdtavyddhi holds that there are only two forms of policy,
peace and war, inasmuch as the six forms result from these two
primary forms of policy.

While Kautilya holds that as their respective conditions
differ, the forms of policy are six.

Of these, agreement with pledges is peace; offensive
operation is war; indifference is neutrality; making preparations is
marching; seeking the protection of another is alliance; and making
peace with one and waging war with another, is termed a double
policy (dvaidhibhdva). These are the six forms.

Whoever is inferior to another shall make peace with him;
whoever is superior in power shall wage war; whoever thinks "no
enemy can hurt me, nor am I strong enough to destroy my enemy,"
shall observe neutrality; whoever is possessed of necessary means

370
Kautilya's Arthashastra

shall march against his enemy; whoever is devoid of necessary
strength to defend himself shall seek the protection of another;
whoever thinks that help is necessary to work out an end shall
make peace with one and wage war with another. Such is the aspect
of the six forms of policy.

Of these, a wise king shall observe that form of policy which,
in his opinion, enables him to build forts, to construct buildings and
commercial roads, to open new plantations and villages, to exploit
mines and timber and elephant forests, and at the same time to
harass similar works of his enemy.

Whoever thinks himself to be growing in power more rapidly
both in quality and quantity (than his enemy), and the reverse of his
enemy, may neglect his enemy's progress for the time.

If any two kings hostile to each other find the time of
achieving the results of their respective works to be equal, they
shall make peace with each other.

No king shall keep that form of policy, which causes him the
loss of profit from his own works, but which entails no such loss on
the enemys; for it is deterioration.

Whoever thinks that in the course of time his loss will be less
than his acquisition as contrasted with that of his enemy, may
neglect his temporary deterioration.

If any two kings hostile to each other and deteriorating,
expect to acquire equal amount of wealth in equal time, they shall

make peace with each other.

That position in which neither progress nor retrogression is
seen is stagnation.

371
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever thinks his stagnancy to be of a shorter duration and
his prosperity in the long run to be greater than his enemy's may
neglect his temporary stagnation.

My teacher says that if any two kings, who are hostile to each
other and are in a stationary condition expect to acquire equal
amount of wealth and power in equal time, they shall make peace
with each other.

"Of course,” says Kautilya, "there is no other alternative.”
Or if a king thinks:--

"That keeping the agreement of peace, 1 can undertake
productive works of considerable importance and destroy at the
same time those of my enemy; or apart from enjoying the results of
my own works, I shall also enjoy those of my enemy in virtue of
the agreement of peace; or I can destroy the works of my enemy by
employing spies and other secret means; or by holding out such
inducements as a happy dwelling, rewards, remission of taxes,
little work and large profits and wages, I can empty my enemy's
country of its population, with which he has been able to carry his
own works; or being allied with a king of considerable power, my
enemy will have his own works destroyed; or I can prolong my
enemy's hostility with another king whose threats have driven my
enemy to seek my protection; or being allied with me, my enemy
can harass the country of another king who hates me; or oppressed
by another king, the subjects of my enemy will immigrate into my
country, and I can, therefore, achieve the results of my own works
very easily; or being in a precarious condition due to the
destruction of his works, my enemy will not be so powerful as to
attack me; or by exploiting my own resources in alliance with any
two (friendly) kings, I can augment my resources; or if a Circle of
States is formed by my enemy as one of its members, I can divide

372
Kautilya's Arthashastra

them and combine with the others; or by threats or favour, I can

catch hold of my enemy, and when he desires to be a member of

my own Circle of States, I can make him incur the displeasure of

the other members. and fall a victim to their own fury,"--if a king

thinks thus, then he may increase his resources by keeping peace.
Or if a king thinks:--

"That as my country is full of born soldiers and of
corporations of fighting men, and as it possesses such natural
defensive positions as mountains, forests, rivers, and forts with
only one entrance, it can easily repel the attack of my enemy; or
having taken my stand in my impregnable fortress at the border of
my country, I can harass the works of my enemy; or owing to
internal troubles and loss of energy, my enemy will early suffer
from the destruction of his works; or when my enemy is attacked
by another king, I can induce his subjects to immigrate into my
country,” then he may augment his own resources by keeping open
hostility with such an enemy.

Or if a king thinks:--

"That neither is my enemy strong enough to destroy my
works, nor am I his; or if he comes to fight with me, like a dog with
a boar, I can increase his afflictions without incurring any loss in
my own works," then he may observe neutrality and augment his
own resources.

Or if a king thinks:--
"That by marching my troops it is possible to destroy the
works of my enemy; and as for myself, I have made proper

arrangements to safeguard my own works," then he may increase
his resources by marching.

373
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Or if a king thinks:--

"That I am strong enough neither to harass my enemy’s works
nor to defend my own against my enemy's attack,” then he shall
seek protection from a king of superior power and endeavour to
pass from the stage of deterioration to that of stagnancy and from
the latter to that of progress.

Or if a king thinks:--

"That by making peace with one, I can work out my own
resources, and by waging war with another, I can destroy the works
of my enemy," then he may adopt that double policy and improve
his resources.

* Thus, a king in the circle of sovereign state shall, by
adopting the six-fold policy, endeavour to pass from the state of
deterioration to that of stagnation and from the latter to that of
progress.

[Thus ends Chapter I, "The Six-fold Policy and Determination of
Deterioration, Stagnation and Progress” in Book VII, “The end of
the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
ninety-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. THE NATURE OF ALLIANCE.

WHEN the advantages derivable from peace and war are of
equal character, one should prefer peace; for disadvantages, such
as the loss of power and wealth, sojourning, and sin, are
ever-attending upon war.

The same holds good in the case of neutrality and war. Of the
two (forms of policy), double policy and alliance, double policy

374
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(i.e., making peace with one and waging war with another) is
preferable; for whoever adopts the double policy enriches himself,
being ever attentive to his own works, whereas an allied king has to
help his ally at his own expense.

One shall make an alliance with a king who is stronger than
one's neighbouring enemy; in the absence of such a king, one
should ingratiate oneself with one's neighbouring enemy, either by
supplying money or army or by ceding a part of one's territory and
by keeping oneself aloof; for there can be no greater evil to kings
than alliance with a king of considerable power, unless one is
actually attacked by one's enemy.

A powerless king should behave as a conquered king
(towards his immediate enemy); but when he finds that the time of
his own ascendancy is at hand due to a fatal disease, internal
troubles, increase of enemies, or a friend's calamities that are
vexing his enemy, then under the pretence of performing some
expiatory rites to avert the danger of his enemy, he may get out (of
the enemy's court); or if he is in his own territory, he should not go
to see his suffering enemy; or if he is near to his enemy, he may
murder the enemy when opportunity affords itself.

A king who is situated between two powerful kings shall seek
protection from the stronger of the two; or from one of them on
whom he can rely; or he may make peace with both of them on
equal terms. Then he may begin to set one of them against the other
by telling each that the other is a tyrant causing utter ruin to
himself, and thus cause dissension between them. When they are
divided, he may pat down each separately by secret or covert
means. Or, throwing himself under the protection of any two
immediate kings of considerable power, he may defend himself
against an immediate enemy. Or, having made an alliance with a
chief in a stronghold, he may adopt double policy (i.e., make peace

375
Kautilya's Arthashastra

with one of the two kings, and wage war with another). Or, be may
adapt himself to circumstances depending upon the causes of peace
and war in order. Or, he may make friendship with traitors,
enemies, and wild chiefs who are conspiring against both the kings.
Or, pretending to be a close friend of one of them, he may strike the
other at the latter's weak point by employing enemies, and wild
tribes. Or, having made friendship with both, he may form a Circle
of States. Or, he may make an alliance with the madhyama or the
neutral king; and with this help he may put down one of them or
both. Or when hurt by both, he may seek protection from a king of
righteous character among the madhyama king, the neutral king,
and their friends or equals, or from any other king whose subjects
are so disposed as to increase his happiness and peace, with whose
help he may be able to recover his lost position, with whom his
ancestors were in close intimacy, or blood relationship, and in
whose kingdom he can find a number of powerful friends.

* Of two powerful kings who are on amicable terms with each
other, a king shall make alliance with one of them who likes him
and whom he likes; this is the best way of making alliance.

[Thus ends Chapter II, “The Nature of Alliance” in Book VII, “The
end of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
the hundredth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. THE CHARACTER OF EQUAL, INFERIOR
AND SUPERIOR KINGS; AND FORMS OF AGREEMENT
MADE BY AN INFERIOR KING.

A KING desirous of expanding his own power shall make use
of the six-fold policy.

376
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Agreements of peace shall be made with equal and superior
kings; and an inferior king shall be attacked.

Whoever goes to wage war with a superior king will be
reduced to the same condition as that of a foot-soldier opposing an
elephant.

Just as the collision of an unbaked mud-vessel with a similar
vessel is destructive to both, so war with an equal king brings ruin
to both.

Like a stone striking an earthen pot, a superior king attains
decisive victory over an inferior king.

If a superior king discards the proposal of an inferior king for
peace, the latter should take the attitude of a conquered king, or
play the part of an inferior king towards a superior.

When a king of equal power does not like peace, then the
same amount of vexation as his opponent has received at his hands
should be given to him in return; for it is power that brings about
peace between any two kings: no piece of iron that is not made
red-hot will combine with another piece of iron.

When an inferior king is all submissive, peace should be
made with him; for when provoked by causing him troubles and
anger, an inferior king, like a wild fire, will attack his enemy and
will also be favoured by (his) Circle of States.

When a king in peace with another finds that greedy,
impoverished, and oppressed as are the subjects of his ally, they do
not yet immigrate into his own territory lest they might be called
back by their master, then he should, though of inferior power,
proclaim war against his ally.

377
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a king at war with another finds that greedy,
impoverished, and oppressed as are the subjects of his enemy, still
they do not come to his side in consequence of the troubles of war,
then he should, though of superior power, make peace with his
enemy or remove the troubles of war as far as possible.

When one of the two kings at war with each other and equally
involved in trouble finds his own troubles to be greater than his
enemy's, and thinks that by getting rid of his (enemy's) trouble his
enemy can successful wage war with him, then he should, though
possessing greater resources, sue for peace.

When, either in peace or war, a king finds neither loss to his
enemy nor gain to himself, he should, though superior, observe
neutrality.

When a king finds the troubles of his enemy irremediable, he
should, though of inferior power, march against the enemy.

When a king finds himself threatened by imminent dangers or
troubles, he should, though superior, seek the protection of another.

When a king is sure to achieve his desired ends by making
peace with one and waging war with another, he should, though
superior, adopt the double policy.

Thus it is that the six forms of policy are applied together.
As to their special application:--

* When a powerless king finds himself attacked by a powerful
king, leading a Circle of States, he should submissively sue for
peace on the condition of offering treasure, army, himself or his
territory.

378
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* Agreement made on the condition that with a fixed number of
troops or with the flower of his army, a king should present himself
(when called for), is peace termed dtmdmisha, ‘offering himself as
flesh.’

* Agreement made on the condition that the commander of the
army together with the heir-apparent should present himself (when
called for), is peace styled purushdntarasandhi, ‘peace with
hostages other than the king himself’; and it is conducive to
self-preservation, as it does not require the personal attendance of
the king.

* Agreement made on the condition that the king himself or some
one else should march with the army to some place, as required, is
peace termed adrishtapurusha, ‘peace with no specified person to
serve’; and it is conducive to the safety of the king and the chiefs of
his army.

* In the first two forms of the peace, a woman of rank should be
given as an hostage, and in the last, a secret attempt should be made
to capture the enemy; these are the forms of peace concluded on the
condition of supplying his army.

* When,by offering wealth, the rest of the elements of sovereignty
are set free, that peace is termed parikraya, ‘price.’

* Similarly, when peace is concluded by offering money capable of
being taken on a man's shoulders, it is termed upagraha, ‘subsidy’;
and it is of various forms; Owing to distance and owing to its
having been kept long, the amount of the tribute promised may
sometimes fall in arrears.

* Yet as such a burden can tolerably be paid in future, this peace is
better than the one with a woman given as an hostage. When the
parties making an agreement of peace are amicably united, it is
termed suvarnasandhi, ‘golden peace.’

* Quite reverse from the former is the peace called kapdla, “half of
a pot,” which is concluded on the condition of paying immense
quantity of money.

* In the first two, one should send the supply of raw materials,

379
Kautilya's Arthashastra

elephants, horses and troops; in the third, money; and in the fourth,
one should evade the payment under the plea of loss of results from
works; these are the forms of peace concluded on the payment of
money.
* When by ceding a part of the territory, the rest of the kingdom
with its subjects are kept safe, it is termed ddishta, ‘ceded,’ and is
of advantage to one who is desirous of destroying thieves and other
wicked persons (infesting the ceded part).
* When with the exception of the capital, the whole of the territory,
impoverished by exploitation of its resources is ceded, it is termed
uchchhinnasandhi, ‘peace cut off from profit,” and is of advantage
to one who desires to involve the enemy in troubles.
* When by the stipulation of paying the produce of the land, the
kingdom is set free, it is termed avakraya, ‘rent.” That which is
concluded by the promise of paying more than the land yields is
paribhiishana, ‘ornament.’
* One should prefer the first; but the last two based upon the
payment of the produce should be made only when one is obliged
to submit to power. These are the forms of peace made by ceding
territory.

* These three kinds of peace are to be concluded by an inferior
king in submission to the power of a superior king owing to the
peculiar condition of his own works, circumstances and time.

[Thus ends Chapter III, “The Character of Equal, Inferior, and
Superior Kings; and Forms of Agreement made by an Inferior
King” in Book VII, “The end of the Six-fold Policy” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and first chapter from
the beginning. ]

CHAPTER IV. NEUTRALITY AFTER PROCLAIMING
WAR OR AFTER CONCLUDING A TREATY OF PEACE;

380
Kautilya's Arthashastra

MARCHING AFTER PROCLAIMING WAR OR AFTER
MAKING PEACE; AND THE MARCH OF COMBINED
POWERS.

NEUTRALITY or marching after proclaiming war or peace
has been explained.

Sthdna (keeping quiet), dsana (withdrawal from hostility),
and upekshana (negligence) are synonymous with the word
‘dsana,” ‘neutrality.’ As to the difference between three aspects of
neutrality :---Keeping quiet, maintaining a particular kind of policy
is sthdna;, withdrawal from hostile actions for the sake of one’s
own interests is dsana; and taking no steps (against an enemy) is
upekshana.

When two kings, who, though bent on making conquests, are
desirous of peace, are unable to proceed, one against the other, they
may keep quiet after proclaiming war or after making peace.

When a king finds it possible to put down by means of his
own army, or with the help of a friend, or of wild tribes, another
king of equal or superior power, then having set up proper defences
against both internal and external enemies, he may keep quiet after
proclaiming war.

When a king is convinced that his own subjects are brave,
united, prosperous, and able not only to carry on their own works
without interference, but also to harass his enemy's works, then he
may keep quiet after proclaiming war.

When a king finds that as his enemy's subjects are ill-treated,
impoverished and greedy and are ever being oppressed by the
inroads of the army, thieves, and wild tribes, they can be made
through intrigue to join his side; or that his own agriculture and

381
Kautilya's Arthashastra

commerce are flourishing while those of his enemy are waning; or
that as the subjects of his enemy are suffering from famine, they
will immigrate into his own territory; or that, though his own
returns of agriculture and commerce are falling and those of his
enemy increasing, his own subjects will never desert him in favour
of his enemy; or that by proclaiming war, he can carry off, by force,
the grains, cattle and gold of his enemy; or that he can prevent the
import of his enemy's merchandise, which was destructive of his
own commerce; or that valuable merchandise would come to his
own territory, leaving that of his enemy; or that war being
proclaimed, his enemy would be unable to put down traitors,
enemies, and wild tribes and other rebels, and would be involved in
war with them; or that his own friend would in a very short time
accumulate wealth without much loss and would not fail to follow
him in his march, since no friend would neglect the opportunity of
acquiring a fertile land and a prosperous friend like himself,--then
in view of inflicting injuries on his enemy and of exhibiting his
own power, he may keep quiet after proclaiming war.

But my teacher says that turning against such a king, his
enemy may swallow him.

‘Not so,” says Kautilya, ‘impoverishment of the enemy who is
free from troubles is all that is aimed at (when a king keeps quiet
after proclaiming war). As soon as such a king acquires sufficient
strength, he will undertake to destroy the enemy. To such a king,
the enemy’s enemy will send help to secure his own personal
safety.” Hence, whoever is provided with necessary strength may
keep quiet after proclaiming war.

When the policy of keeping quiet after proclaiming war is

found productive of unfavourable results, then one shall keep quiet
after making peace.

382
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Whoever has grown in strength in consequence of keeping
quiet after proclaiming war should proceed to attack his enemy.

When a king finds that his enemy has fallen into troubles; that
the troubles of his enemy ’s subjects can by no means be remedied;
that as his enemy’s subjects are oppressed, ill-treated, disaffected,
impoverished, become effiminate and disunited among
themselves, they can be prevailed upon to desert their master; that
his enemy’s country has fallen a victim to the inroads of such
calamities, as fire, floods, pestilence epidemics (maraka), and
famine and is therefore losing the flower of its youth and its
defensive power,--then he should march after proclaiming war.

When a king is so fortunate as to have a powerful friend in
front and a powerful ally (dkranda) in the rear, both with brave and
loyal subjects, while the reverse is the case with he enemies both in
front and in the rear, and when he finds it possible for his friend to
hold his frontal enemy in check, and for his rear-ally to keep his
rear-enemy (pdrshnigrdha) at bay, then he may march after
proclaiming war against his frontal enemy.

When a king finds it possible to achieve the results of victory
single-handed in a very short time, then he may march (against his
frontal enemy) after proclaiming war against his rear-enemies;
otherwise he should march after making peace (with his
rear-enemies).

When a king finds himself unable to confront his enemy
single-handed and when it is necessary that he should march, then
he should make the expedition in combination with kings of
inferior, equal, or superior powers.

When the object aimed at is of a definite nature, then the share
of spoils should be fixed; but when it is of a manifold or complex

383
Kautilya's Arthashastra

nature, then with no fixity in the share of the spoils. When no such
combination is possible, he may request a king either to supply him
with the army for a fixed share, or to accompany him for an equal
share of the spoils.

When profit is certain, then they should march with fixed
shares of profit; but when it is uncertain, with no fixity of shares.

* Share of profit proportional to the strength of the army is of
the first kind; that which is equal to the effort made is the best;
shares may be allotted in proportion to the profit earned or to the
capital invested.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "Neutrality after Proclaiming War or after
Concluding a Treaty of Peace; Marching after Proclaiming War or
after Making Peace; and the March of Combined Powers,” in Book
VII, “The end of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and second chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT MARCHING
AGAINST AN ASSAILABLE ENEMY AND A STRONG
ENEMY; CAUSES LEADING TO THE DWINDLING,
GREED, AND DISLOYALTY OF THE ARMY; AND
CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT THE COMBINATION OF
POWERS.

WHEN two enemies, one an assailable enemy and another a
strong enemy, are equally involved in troubles, which of them is to
be marched against first?

The strong enemy is to be marched against first; after
vanquishing him, the assailable enemy is to be attacked, for, when

384
Kautilya's Arthashastra

a strong enemy has been vanquished, an assailable enemy will
volunteer of his own accord to help the conqueror; but not so, a
strong enemy.

Which is to be marched against---an assailable enemy
involved in troubles to a greater degree or a strong enemy troubled
to a lesser degree?

My teacher says that as a matter of easy conquest, the
assailable enemy under worse troubles should be marched against
first.

Not so, says Kautilya: The conqueror should march against
the strong enemy under less troubles, for the troubles of the strong
enemy, though less, will be augmented when attacked. True, that
the worse troubles of the assailable enemy will be still worse when
attacked. But when left to himself, the strong enemy under less
troubles will endeavour to get rid of his troubles and unite with the
assailable enemy or with another enemy in the rear of the
conqueror.

When there are two assailable enemies, one of virtuous
character and under worse troubles, and another of vicious
character, under less troubles, and with disloyal subjects, which of
them is to be marched against first?

When the enemy of virtuous character and under worse
troubles is attacked, his subjects will help him; whereas, the
subjects of the other of vicious character and under less troubles
will be indifferent. Disloyal or indifferent subjects will endeavour
to destroy even a strong king. Hence the conqueror should march
against that enemy whose subjects are disloyal.

Which is to be marched against--an enemy whose subjects are

385
Kautilya's Arthashastra

impoverished and greedy or an enemy whose subjects are being
oppressed?

My teacher says that the conqueror should march against that
enemy whose subjects are impoverished and greedy, for
impoverished and greedy subjects suffer themselves to be won
over to the other side by intrigue, and are easily excited. But not so
the oppressed subjects whose wrath can be pacified by punishing
the chief men (of the State).

Not so, says Kautilya: for though impoverished and greedy,
they are loyal to their master and are ready to stand for his cause
and to defeat any intrigue against him; for it is in loyalty that all
other good qualities have their strength. Hence the conqueror
should march against the enemy whose subjects are oppressed.

Which enemy is to be marched against--a powerful enemy of
wicked character or a powerless enemy of righteous character?

The strong enemy of wicked character should be marched
against, for when he is attacked, his subjects will not help him, but
rather put him down or go to the side of the conqueror. But when
the enemy of virtuous character is attacked, his subjects will help
him or die with him.

* By insulting the good and commending the wicked; by causing
unnatural and unrighteous slaughter of life;

* by neglecting the observance of proper and righteous customs; by
doing unrighteous acts and neglecting righteous ones;

* by doing what ought not to be done and not doing what ought to
be done; by not paying what ought to be paid and exacting what
ought not to be taken;

* by not punishing the guilty and severely punishing the less guilty;
by arresting those who are not to be caught hold of and leaving

386
Kautilya's Arthashastra

those who are to be arrested;

* by undertaking risky works and destroying profitable ones; by
not protecting the people against thieves and by robbing them of
their wealth;

* by giving up manly enterprise and condemning good works; by
hurting the leaders of the people and despising the worthy;

* by provoking the aged, by crooked conduct, and by
untruthfulness; by not applying remedies against evils and
neglecting works in hand;

* and by carelessness and negligence of himself in maintaining the
security of person and property of his subjects, the king causes
impoverishment, greed, and disaffection to appear among his
subjects;

* when a people are impoverished, they become greedy; when they
are greedy, they become disaffected; when disaffected, they
voluntarily go to the side of the enemy or destroy their own master.

Hence, no king should give room to such causes as would
bring about impoverishment, greed or disaffection among his
people. If, however, they appear, he should at once take remedial
measures against them.

Which (of the three) is the worst--an impoverished people?
greedy people? or disaffected people?

An impoverished people are ever apprehensive of oppression
and destruction (by over-taxation, etc.), and are therefore desirous
of getting rid of their impoverishment, or of waging war or of
migrating elsewhere.

A greedy people are ever discontented and they yield
themselves to the intrigues of an enemy.

A disaffected people rise against their master along with his

387
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enemy.

When the dwindling of the people is due to want of gold and
grain, it is a calamity fraught with danger to the whole of the
kingdom and can be remedied with difficulty. The dearth of
efficient men can be made up by means of gold and grain. Greed
(is) partial and is found among a few chief officers, and it can be
got rid of or satisfied by allowing them to plunder an enemy's
wealth. Disaffection or disloyalty (virdga) can be got rid of by
putting down the leaders; for in the absence of a leader or leaders,
the people are easily governed (bhogya) and they will not take part
in the intrigues of enemies. When a people are too nervous to
endure the calamities, they first become dispersed, when their
leaders are put down; and when they are kept under restraint, they
endure calamities.

Having well considered the causes which bring about peace
or war, one should combine with kings of considerable power and
righteous character and march against one's enemy.

‘A king of considerable power,” means one who is strong
enough to put down or capture an enemy in the rear of his friend or
to give sufficient help to his friend in his march.

‘A king of righteous character,” means one who does what
one has promised to do, irrespective of good or bad results.

Having combined with one of superior power, or with two of
equal power among such kings, should the conqueror march
against his enemy?

It is better to march combined with two kings of equal power;
for, if combined with a king of superior power, the ally appears to
move, caught hold of, by his superior, whereas in marching with
two kings of equal power, the same will be the result, only, when

388
Kautilya's Arthashastra

those two kings are experts in the art of intrigue; besides it is easy
to separate them; and when one of them is wicked, he can be put
down by the other two and made to suffer the consequence of
dissension.

Combined with one of equal power or with two of lesser
power, should a king march against his enemy?

Better to march with two kings of lesser power; for the
conqueror can depute them to carry out any two different works
and keep them under his control. When the desired end is achieved,
the inferior king will quietly retire after the satisfaction of his
superior.

* Till his discharge, the good conduct of an ally of usually bad
character should be closely scrutinised either by suddenly coming
out at a critical time from a covert position (sattra) to examine his
conduct, or by having his wife as a pledge for his good conduct.

* Though actuated with feelings of true friendship, the conqueror
has reason to fear his ally, though of equal power, when the latter
attains success in his mission; having succeeded in his mission, an
ally of equal power is likely to change his attitude even towards the
conqueror of superior power.

* An ally of superior power should not be relied upon, for
prosperity changes the mind. Even with little or no share in the
spoils, an ally of superior power may go back, appearing
contented; but some time afterwards, he may not fail to sit on the
lap of the conqueror and carry off twice the amount of share due to
him.

* Having been satisfied with mere victory, the leading conqueror
should discharge his allies, having satisfied them with their shares
he may allow himself to be conquered by them instead of
attempting to conquer them (in the matter of spoils); it is thus that a
king can win the good graces of his Circle of States.

389
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter V, "Considerations about Marching against an
Assailable Enemy and a Strong Enemy; Causes Leading to the
Dwindling, Greed, and Disloyalty of the Army; and Considerations
about the Combination of Powers” in Book VII, “The end of the
Sixfold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and third chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER VI. THE MARCH OF COMBINED POWERS;
AGREEMENT OF PEACE WITH OR WITHOUT
DEFINITE TERMS; AND PEACE WITH RENEGADES.

THE Conqueror should thus over-reach the second element,
(the enemy close to his territory):--He should engage his
neighbouring enemy to undertake a simultaneous march with him
and tell the enemy: "Thou, march in that direction, and I shall
march in this direction; and the share in the spoils is equal.”

If the booty is to be equally divided, it is an agreement of
peace; if otherwise, it is overpowering the enemy.

An agreement of peace may be made with promise to carry
out a definite work (paripanita) or with no such promise
(aparipanita).

When the agreement is to the effect that "Thou, march to that
place, and I shall march to this place,” it is termed an agreement of
peace to carry out a work in definite locality.

When it is agreed upon that "Thou, be engaged so long, I shall
be engaged thus long,” it is an agreement to attain an object in a
fixed time.

When it is agreed upon that "Thou, try to accomplish that

390
Kautilya's Arthashastra

work, and 1 shall try to finish this work," it is an agreement to
achieve a definite end.

When the conqueror thinks that "my enemy (now an ally) has
to march through an unknown country, which is intersected with
mountains, forests, rivers, forts and deserts which is devoid of
food-stuffs, people, pastoral grounds, fodder, firewood and water,
and which is far away, different from other countries, and not
affording suitable grounds for the exercise of his army; and I have
to traverse a country of quite the reverse description,” then he
should make an agreement to carry out a work in a definite locality.

When the conqueror thinks that "my enemy has to work with
food stuffs falling short and with no comfort during the rainy, hot
or cold season, giving rise to various kinds of diseases and
obstructing the free exercise of his army during a shorter or longer
period of time than necessary for the accomplishment of the work
in hand; and I have to work during a time of quite the reverse
nature,” then he should make time a factor of the agreement.

When the conqueror thinks that "my enemy has to accomplish
a work which, not lasting but trifling in its nature, enrages his
subjects, which requires much expenditure of time and money, and
which is productive of evil consequences, unrighteous, repugnant
to the Madhyama and neutral kings, and destructive of all
friendship; whereas, I have to do the reverse,” then he should make
an agreement to carry out a definite work.

Likewise with space and time, with time and work, with space
and work, and with space, time, and work, made as terms of an
agreement, it resolves itself into seven forms.

Long before making such an agreement, the conqueror has to
fix his own work and then attempt to overreach his enemy.

391
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When, in order to destroy an enemy who has fallen into
troubles and who is hasty, indolent, and not foresighted, an
agreement of peace with no terms of time, space, or work is made
with an enemy merely for mutual peace, and when under cover of
such an agreement, the enemy is caught hold of at his weak points
and is struck, it is termed peace with no definite terms
(aparipanita). With regard to this there is a saying as follows:--

"Having kept a neighbouring enemy engaged with another
neighbouring enemy, a wise king should proceed against a third
king, and having conquered that enemy of equal power, take
possession of his territory."

Peace with no specific end (akritachikirshd), peace with
binding terms (kritasleshana), the breaking of peace
(kritavidiishana), and restoration of peace broken (apastrnakriyd)
are other forms of peace.

Open battle, treacherous battle, and silent battle (i.e. killing an
enemy by employing spies when there is no talk of battle at all), are
the three forms of battle.

When, by making use of conciliation and other forms of
stratagem and the like, a new agreement of peace is made and the
rights of equal, inferior, and superior powers concerned in the
agreement are defined according to their respective positions, it is
termed an agreement of peace with no specific end (other than
self-preservation).

When, by the employment of friends (at the Courts of each
other), the agreement of peace made is kept secure and the terms
are invariably observed and strictly maintained so that no
dissension may creep among the parties, it is termed peace with
binding terms.

392
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When, having proved through the agency of traitors and spies
the treachery of a king, who has made an agreement of peace, the
agreement is broken, it is termed the breaking of peace.

When reconciliation is made with a servant, or a friend, or any
other renegade, it is termed the restoration of broken peace.

There are four persons who run away from, and return to,
their master : one who had reason to run away and to return; one
who had no reason either to run away or to return; one who had
reason to run away, but none to return; and one who had no reason
to run away, but had reason to come back.

He who runs away owing to his master's fault and returns in
consideration of (his master's) good nature, or he who runs away
attracted by the good nature of his master's enemy and returns
finding fault with the enemy is to be reconciled as he had reason to
run away and to return.

Whoever runs away owing to his own fault and returns
without minding the good nature either of his old or new master is a
fickle-minded person having no explanation to account for his
conduct, and he should have no terms of reconciliation.

Whoever runs away owing to his master's fault and returns
owing to his own defects, is a renegade who had reason to run
away, but none to return: and his case is to be well considered
(before he is taken back).

Whoever returns deputed by the enemy; or of his own accord,
with the intention of hurting his old master, as is natural to persons
of such bad character; or coming to know that his old master is
attempting to put down the enemy, his new master, and
apprehensive of danger to himself; or looking on the attempt of his
new master to destroy his old master as cruelty, these should be

393
Kautilya's Arthashastra

examined; and if he is found to be actuated with good motives, he
is to be taken back respectfully; otherwise, he should be kept at a
distance.

Whoever runs away owing to his own fault and returns owing
to his new master's wickedness is a renegade who had no reason to
run away, but had reason to come back; such a person is to be
examined.

When a king thinks that "This renegade supplies me with full
information about my enemy's weakness, and, therefore, he
deserves to remain here; his own people with me are in friendship
with my friends and at enmity with my enemies and are easily
excited at the sight of greedy and cruel persons or of a band of
enemies,” he may treat such a renegade as deserved.

My teacher says that whoever has failed to achieve profit
from his works, lost his strength, or made his learning a
commercial article, or is very greedy, inquisitive to see different
countries, dead to the feelings of friendship, or has strong enemies,
deserves to be abandoned.

But Kautilya says that it is timidity, unprofessional business,
and lack of forbearance (to do so). Whoever is injurious to the
king's interests should be abandoned, while he who is injurious to
the interests of the enemy should be reconciled; and whoever is
injurious to the interests of both the king and his enemy should be
carefully examined.

When it is necessary to make peace with a king with whom no
peace ought to be made, defensive measures should be taken
against that point where he can show his power.

* In restoring broken peace, a renegade or a person inclined
towards the enemy should be kept at such a distance that till the

394
Kautilya's Arthashastra

close of his life, he may be useful to the State.

* Or, he may be set against the enemy or may be employed as a
captain of an army to guard wild tracts against enemies, or thrown
somewhere on the boundary.

* Or, he may be employed to carry on a secret trade in new or old
commodities in foreign countries and may accordingly be accused
of conspiracy with the enemy.

* Or, in the interests of future peace, a renegade who must be put to
death may at once be destroyed.

* That kind of wicked character which has from the beginning
grown upon a man owing to his association with enemies is as ever
fraught with danger as constant living in company with a snake;

* and is ever threatening with destruction just as a pigeon living on
the seeds of plaksha (holy fig-tree) is to the salmali (silk-cotton)
tree.

* Whenbattle is fought in daylight and in some locality, it is termed
an open battle; threatening in one direction, assault in another,
destruction of an enemy captured while he was careless or in
troubles;

* and bribing a portion of the army and destroying another portion,
are forms of treacherous fight; and attempt to win over the chief
officers of the enemy by intrigue, is the characteristic of silent
battle.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, “The March of Combined Powers;
Agreement of Peace with or without Definite Terms; and Peace
with Renegades,” in Book VII, “The end of the Sixfold Policy” of
the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and fourth chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER VII. PEACE AND WAR BY ADOPTING THE
395
Kautilya's Arthashastra

DOUBLE POLICY.

THE conqueror may overpower the second member (i.e., the
immediate enemy) thus:--

Having combined with a neighbouring king, the conqueror
may march against another neighbouring king. Or if he thinks that
"(my enemy) will neither capture my rear nor make an alliance
with my assailable enemy against whom I am going to march; (for
otherwise) I shall have to fight against great odds; (my ally) will
not only facilitate the collection of my revenue and supplies and
put down the internal enemies who are causing me immense
trouble, but also punish wild tribes and their followers entrenched
in their strongholds, reduce my assailable enemy to a precarious
condition or compel him to accept the proffered peace, and having
received as much profit as he desires, he will endeavour to endear
my other enemies to me," then the conqueror may proclaim war
against one and make peace with another and endeavour to get an
army for money or money for the supply of an army from among
his neighbouring kings.

When the kings of superior, equal or inferior power make
peace with the conqueror and agree to pay a greater, or equal, or
less amount of profit in proportion to the army supplied, it is
termed even peace; that which is of the reverse character is styled
uneven peace; and when the profit is proportionally very high, it is
termed deception (atisandhi).

When a king of superior power is involved in troubles, or is
come to grief or is afflicted with misfortune, his enemy, though of
inferior power, may request of him the help of his army in return
for a share in the profit proportional to the strength of the army
supplied. If the king to whom peace is offered on such terms is
powerful enough to retaliate, he may declare war; and otherwise he

396
Kautilya's Arthashastra

may accept the terms.

In view of marching for the purpose of exacting some
expected revenue to be utilised in recouping his own strength and
resources, an inferior king may request of a superior the help of the
latter's army for the purpose of guarding the base and the rear of his
territory in return for the payment of a greater share in the profit
than the strength of the arm supplied deserves. The king to whom
such a proposal is made may accept the proposal, if the proposer is
of good intentions; but otherwise he may declare war.

When a king of inferior power or one who is provided with
the aid of forts and friends has to make a short march in order to
capture an enemy without waging war or to receive some expected
profit, he may request a third king of superior power involved
under various troubles and misfortunes the help of the latter's army
in return for the payment of a share in the profit less than the
strength of the army supplied deserves. If the king to whom this
proposal is made is powerful enough to retaliate, he may declare
war; but otherwise he may accept the proposal.

When a king of superior power and free from all troubles is
desirous of causing to his enemy loss of men an money in the
latter's ill-considered undertakings, or of sending his own
treacherous army abroad, or bringing his enemy under the clutches
of an inimical army, or of causing trouble to a reducible and
tottering enemy by setting a inferior king against that enemy, or is
desirous of having peace for the sake of peace itself and is
possessed of good intentions, he may accept a less share in the
profit (promise for the army supplied to another) and endeavour to
make wealth by combining with an ally if the latter is equally of
good intentions; but otherwise he may declare war (against that

ally).

397
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A king may deceive or help his equal as follows:--

When a king proposes peace to another king of equal power
on the condition of receiving the help of the latter army strong
enough to oppose an enemy's army, or to guard the front, centre,
and rear of his territory, or to help his friend, or to protect any other
wild tracts of his territory in return for the payment of a share in the
profit proportionally equal to the strength of the army supplied, the
latter may accept the terms if the proposer is of good intentions; but
otherwise he may declare war.

When a king of equal power, capable of receiving the help of
an army from another quarter requests of another king in troubles
due to the diminished strength of the elements of sovereignty, and
with many enemies, the help of the latter's army in return for the
payment of a share in the profit less than the strength of the army
supplied deserves, the latter, if powerful, may declare war or
accept the terms otherwise.

When a king who is under troubles, who has his works at the
mercy of his neighbouring kings, and who has yet to make an army,
requests of another king of equal power the help of the latter's army
in return for the payment of a share in the profit greater than the
strength of the army supplied deserves, the latter may accept the
terms if the proposer is of good intentions: but otherwise war may
be declared.

When, with the desire of putting down a king in troubles due
to the diminished strength of the elements of sovereignty, or with
the desire of destroying his well-begun work of immense and
unfailing profit, or with the intention of striking him in his own
place or on the occasion of marching, one, though frequently
getting immense (subsidy) from an assailable enemy of equal,
inferior, or superior power, sends demands to him again and again,

398
Kautilya's Arthashastra

then he may comply with the demands of the former if he is
desirous of maintaining his own power by destroying with the
army of the former an impregnable fortress of an enemy or a friend
of that enemy or laying waste the wild tracts of that enemy, or if he
is desirous of exposing the army of the ally to wear and tear even in
good roads and good seasons, or if he is desirous of strengthening
his own army with that of his ally and thereby putting down the ally
or winning over the army of the ally.

When a king is desirous of keeping under his power another
king of superior or inferior power as an assailable enemy and of
destroying the latter after routing out another enemy with the help
of the latter, or when he is desirous of getting back whatever he has
paid (as subsidy), he may send a proposal of peace to another on
the condition of paying more than the cost of the army supplied. If
the king to whom this proposal is made is powerful enough to
retaliate he may declare war; or if otherwise, he may accept the
terms; or he may keep quiet allied with the assailable enemy; or he
may supply the proposer of peace with his army full of traitors,
enemies and wild tribes.

When a king of superior power falls into troubles owing to the
weakness of the elements of his sovereignty, and requests of an
inferior king the help of the latter's army in return for the payment
of a share in the profit proportionally equal to the strength of the
army supplied, the latter, if powerful enough to retaliate, may
declare war and if otherwise, accept the terms.

A king of superior power may request of an inferior the help
of the latter's army in return for the payment of a share in the profit
less than the cost of the army supplied; and the latter, if powerful
enough to retaliate, may declare war, or accept the terms otherwise.

* The king who is sued for peace and also the king who offers
peace should both consider the motive with which the proposal of

399
Kautilya's Arthashastra

peace is made, and adopt that course of action which on
consideration seems to be productive of good results.

[Thus ends Chapter VII "Peace and War by Adopting the Double
Policy” in Book VII, “The end of the Six-fold Policy” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and fifth chapter from
the beginning. ]

CHAPTER VIII. THE ATTITUDE OF AN ASSAILABLE
ENEMY; AND FRIENDS THAT DESERVE HELP.

WHEN an assailable enemy who is in danger of being
attacked is desirous of taking upon himself the condition which led
one king to combine with another against himself, or of splitting
them from each other, he may propose peace to one of the kings on
the condition of himself paying twice the amount of profit accruing
from the combination. The agreement having been made, he may
describe to that king the loss of men and money, the hardships of
sojourning abroad, the commission of sinful deeds, and the misery
and other personal troubles to which that king would have been
subjected. When the king is convinced of the truth, the amount
promised may be paid; or having made that king to incur enmity
with other kings, the agreement itself may be broken off.

When a king is inclined to cause to another, loss of men and
money in the ill-considered undertakings of the latter or to frustrate
the latter in the attempt of achieving large profits from well-begun
undertakings; or when he means to strike another at his (another's)
own place or while marching; or when he intends to exact subsidy
again in combination with the latter's assailable enemy; or when he
is in need of money and does not like to trust to his ally, he may, for

400
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the time being, be satisfied with a small amount of profit.

When aking has in view the necessity of helping a friend or of
destroying an enemy, or the possibility of acquiring much wealth
(in return for the present help) or when he intends to utilize in
future the services of the one now obliged by him, he may reject the
offer of large profit at the present in preference of a small gain in
future.

When a king means to help another from the clutches of
traitors or enemies or of a superior king threatening the very
existence of the latter, and intends thereby to set an example of
rendering similar help to himself in future, he should receive no
profit either at the present or in the future.

When a king means to harass the people of an enemy or to
break the agreement of peace between a friend and a foe, or when
he suspects of another's attack upon himself, and when owing to
any of these causes, he wants to break peace with his ally, he may
demand from the latter an enhanced amount of profit long before it
is due. The latter under these circumstances may demand for a
procedure (krama) either at the present or in the future. The same
procedure explains the cases treated of before.

The conqueror and his enemy helping their respective friends
differ according as their friends are such or are not such as
undertake possible, praiseworthy or productive works and as are
resolute in their undertakings and are provided with loyal and
devoted subjects.

Whoever undertakes tolerable work is a beginner possible
work: whoever undertakes an unblemished work is a beginner of
praiseworthy work; whoever undertakes work of large profits is a
beginner of a productive work; whoever takes no rest before the

401
Kautilya's Arthashastra

completion of the work undertaken is a resolute worker; and
whoever has loyal and devoted subjects is in a position to
command help and to bring to a successful termination any work
without losing anything in the form of favour. When such friends
are gratified by the enemy or the conqueror, they can be of
immense help to him; friends of reverse character should never be
helped.

Of the two, the conqueror and his enemy, both of whom may
happen to have a friend in the same person, he who helps a true or a
truer friend overreaches the other; for, by helping a true friend, he
enriches himself, while the other not only incurs loss of men and
money and the hardships of sojourning abroad, but also showers
benefits on an enemy who hates the benefactor all the more for his
gratification.

Whoever of the two, the conqueror and his enemy, who may
happen to have a friend in the same Madhyama king, helps a
Madhyama king of true or truer friendship overreaches the other;
for, by helping a true friend, he enriches himself, while the other
incurs loss of men and money and the difficulties of sojourning
abroad. When a Madhyama king thus helped is devoid of good
qualities, then the enemy overreaches the conqueror: for, such a
Madhyama king, spending his energies on useless undertakings
and receiving help with no idea of returning it, withdraws himself
away.

The same thing holds good with a neutral king under similar
circumstances.

In case of helping with a portion of the army one of the two, a
Madhyama or a neutral king, whoever happens to help one who is
brave, skillful in handling weapons, and possessed of endurance
and friendly feelings will himself be deceived while his enemy,

402
Kautilya's Arthashastra

helping one of reverse character, will overreach him.

When a king achieves this or that object with the assistance of
a friend who is to receive the help of his army in return later on,
then he may send out of his various kinds of army--such as
hereditary army, hired army, army formed of corporations of
people, his friend's army and the army composed of wild
tribes--either that kind of army which has the experience of all
sorts of grounds and of seasons or the army of enemies or of wild
tribes, which is far removed in space and time.

When a king thinks that, "Though successful, my ally may
cause my army to move in an enemy's territory or in wild tracts,
and during unfavourable seasons and thereby he may render it
useless to me," then under the excuse of having to employ his army
otherwise, he may help his ally in any other way; but when he is
obliged to lend his army, he may send that kind of his army, which
is used to the weather of the time of operation, under the condition
of employing it till the completion of the work, and of protecting it
from dangers. When the ally has finished his work, he should,
under some excuse, try to get back his army or he may send to his
ally that army which is composed of traitors, enemies, and wild
tribes; or having made peace with the ally's assailable enemy, he
may deceive the ally.

* When the profit accruing to kings under an agreement,
whether they be of equal, inferior, or superior power, is equal to all,
that agreement is termed peace (sandhi); when unequal, it is
termed defeat (vikrama). Such is the nature of peace and war.

[Thus ends Chapter VIII, “The Attitude of an Assailable Enemy;
and Friends that Deserve Help,” in Book VII, “The end of the
Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and sixth chapter from the beginning. ]

403
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER IX. AGREEMENT FOR THE ACQUISITION OF
A FRIEND OR GOLD.

OF the three gains, the acquisition of a friend, of gold, and of
territory, accruing from the march of combined powers, that which
is mentioned later is better than the one previously mentioned; for
friends and gold can be acquired by means of territory; of the two
gains, that of a friend and of gold, each can be a means to acquire
the other.

Agreement under the condition, "let us acquire a friend, etc.,”
is termed even peace; when one acquires a friend and the other
makes an enemy, etc., it is termed uneven peace; and when one
gains more than the other, it is deception.

In an even peace (i.e., agreement on equal terms) whoever
acquires a friend of good character or relieves an old friend from
troubles, overreaches the other; for help given in misfortune
renders friendship very firm.

Which is better of the two: a friend of long-standing, but
unsubmissive nature, or a temporary friend of submissive nature,
both being acquired by affording relief from their respective
troubles?

My teacher says that a long-standing friend of unsubmissive
nature is better inasmuch as such a friend, though not helpful, will
not create harm.

Not so, says Kautilya: a temporary friend of submissive
nature is better; for such a friend will be a true friend so long as he
is helpful; for the real characteristic of friendship lies in giving
help.

404
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Which is the better of two submissive friends: a temporary
friend of large prospects, or a longstanding friend of limited
prospects?

My teacher says that a temporary friend of large prospects is
better inasmuch as such a friend can, in virtue of his large
prospects, render immense service in a very short time, and can
stand undertakings of large outlay.

Not so, says Kautilya: a long-standing friend of limited
prospects is better, inasmuch as a temporary friend of large
prospects is likely to withdraw his friendship on account of
material loss in the shape of help given, or is likely to expect
similar kind of help in return; but a long-standing friend of limited
prospects can, in virtue of his long-standing nature, render
immense service in the long run.

Which is better, a big friend, difficult to be roused, or a small
friend, easy to be roused?

My teacher says that a big friend, though difficult to be
roused, is of imposing nature, and when he rises up, he can
accomplish the work undertaken.

Not so, says Kautilya: a small friend easy to be roused is
better, for such a friend will not, in virtue of his ready preparations,
be behind the opportune moment of work, and can, in virtue of his
weakness in power, be used in any way the conqueror may like; but
not so the other of vast territorial power.

Which is better, scattered troops, or an unsubmissive standing
army?

My teacher says that scattered troops can be collected in time

405
Kautilya's Arthashastra

as they are of submissive nature.

Not so, says Kautilya: an unsubmissive standing army is
better as it can be made submissive by conciliation and other
strategic means; but it is not so easy to collect in time scattered
troops as they are engaged in their individual avocations.

Which is better, a friend of vast population, or a friend of
immense gold?

My teacher says that a friend of vast population is better
inasmuch as such a friend will be of imposing power and can, when
he rises up, accomplish any work undertaken.

Not so, says Kautilya: a friend possessing immense gold is
better; for possession of gold is ever desirable; but an army is not
always required. Moreover armies and other desired objects can be
purchased for gold.

Which is better, a friend possessing gold, or a friend
possessing vast territory?

My teacher says that a friend possessing gold can stand any
heavy expenditure made with discretion.

Not so, says Kautilya: for it has already been stated that both
friends and gold can be acquired by means of territory. Hence a
friend of vast territory is far better.

When the friend of the conqueror and his enemy happen to
possess equal population, their people may yet differ in possession
of qualities such as bravery, power of endurance, amicableness,
and qualification for the formation of any kind of army.

When the friends are equally rich in gold, they may yet differ
406
Kautilya's Arthashastra

in qualities such as readiness to comply with requests,
magnanimous and munificent help, and accessibility at any time
and always.

About this topic, the following sayings are current:--

* Long standing, submissive, easy to be roused, coming from
fathers and grandfathers, powerful, and never of a contradictory
nature, is a good friend; and these are said to be the six qualities of
a good friend;

* that friend who maintains friendship with disinterested motives
and merely for the sake of friendship and by whom the relationship
acquired of old is kept intact, is a long-standing friend;

* that friend whose munificence is enjoyable in various ways is a
submissive friend, and is said to be of three forms:--One who is
enjoyable only by one, one who is enjoyable by two (the enemy
and the conqueror), and one who is enjoyable by all, is the third;

* that friend who, whether as receiving help or as giving help, lives
with an oppressive hand over his enemies, and who possesses a
number of forts and a vast army of wild tribes is said to be a
long-standing friend of unsubmissive nature;

* that friend who, either when attacked or when in trouble, makes
friendship for the security of his own existence is temporary and
submissive friend;

* that friend who contracts friendship with a single aim in view and
who is helpful, immutable, and amicable is a friend never falling
foul even in adversity;

* whoever is of an amicable nature is a true friend; whoever sides
also with the enemy is a mutable friend and whoever is indifferent
to neither (the conqueror and his enemy) is a friend to both;

* that friend who is inimical to the conqueror or who is equally
friendly to the conquerors enemy is a harmful friend, whether he is
giving help or is capable of helping;

* whoever helps the enemy's friend, protege, or any vulnerable

407
Kautilya's Arthashastra

person or a relation of the enemy is a friend common to (both) the
enemy (and the conqueror);

* whoever possesses extensive and fertile territory and is
contented, strong, but indolent, will be indifferent (towards his
ally) when the latter becomes despicable under troubles;

* whoever, owing to his own weakness, follows the ascendancy of
both the conqueror and his enemy, not incurring enmity with
either, is known as a common friend;

* whoever neglects a friend who is being hurt with or without
reason and who seeks help with or without reason despises his own
danger.

Which is better, an immediate small gain, or a distant large
gain?

My teacher says that an immediate small gain is better, as it is
useful to carry out immediate undertakings.

Not so, says Kautilya: a large gain, as continuous as a
productive seed, is better; otherwise an immediate small gain.

* Thus, having taken into consideration the good aspects of a
permanent gain or of a share in a permanent gain, should a king,
desirous of strengthening himself, march combined with others.

[Thus ends Chapter IX, “Agreement for the Acquisition of a Friend
or Gold” in the section of “Agreement for the Acquisition of a
Friend, Gold, or Land and Agreement for Undertaking a Work,” in
Book VII, “The end of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and seventh chapter from the
beginning. ]

408
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER X. AGREEMENT OF PEACE FOR THE
ACQUISITION OF LAND.

THE agreement made under the condition, "Let us acquire
land,” is an agreement of peace for the acquisition of land.

Of the two kings thus entering into an agreement whoever
acquires a rich and fertile land withstanding crops overreaches the
other.

The acquisition of rich land being equal, whoever acquires
such land by putting down a powerful enemy overreaches the
other; for not only does he acquire territory, but also destroys an
enemy and thereby augments his own power. True, there is beauty
in acquiring land by putting down a weak enemy; but the land
acquired will also be poor, and the king in the neighbourhood who
has hitherto been a friend, will now become an enemy.

The enemies being equally strong, he who acquires territory
after beating a fortified enemy overreaches the other; for the
capture of a fort is conducive to the protection of territory and to
the destruction of wild tribes.

As to the acquisition of land from a wandering enemy, there is
the difference of having a powerful or powerless enemy close to
the acquired territory; for the land which is close to a powerless
enemy is easily maintained while that bordering upon the territory
of a powerful enemy has to be kept at the expense of men and
money.

Which is better, the acquisition of a rich land close to a
constant enemy, or that of sterile land near to a temporary enemy?

My teacher say that a rich land with a constant enemy is

409
Kautilya's Arthashastra

better, inasmuch as it yields much wealth to maintain a strong
army, by which the enemy can be put down.

Not so, says Kautilya: for a rich land creates many enemies,
and the constant enemy will ever be an enemy, whether or not he is
helped (with men and money to conciliate him); but a temporary
enemy will be quiet either from fear or favour. That land, on the
border of which there are a number of forts giving shelter to bands
of thieves, Mlechchhas, and wild tribes is a land with a constant
enemy; and that which is of reverse character is one with a
temporary enemy.

Which is better, a small piece of land, not far, or an extensive
piece of land, very far?

A small piece of land, not far, is better, inasmuch as it can be
easily acquired, protected, and defended, whereas the other is of a
reverse nature.

Of the above two kinds of land, which is better, that which
can be maintained by itself, or that which requires external armed
force to maintain?

The former is better, as it can be maintained with the army
and money produced by itself, whereas the latter is of a reverse
character as a military station.

Which is better, acquisition of land from a stupid or a wise
king?

That acquired from a stupid king is better, as it can be easily
acquired and secured, and cannot be taken back, whereas that
obtained from a wise king, beloved of his subjects, is of a reverse
nature.

410
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of two enemies, of whom one can only be harassed and
another is reducible, acquisition of land from the latter is better; for
when the latter is attacked, he, having little or no help, begins to run
away, taking his army and treasure with him, and he is deserted by
his subjects; whereas the former does not do so, as he has the help
of his forts and friends..

Of two fortified kings, one who has his forts on a plain is
more easily reduced than the other owning a fort in the centre of a
river; for a fort in a plain can be easily assailed, destroyed or
captured along with the enemy in it, whereas a fort, surrounded by
a river requires twice as much effort to capture and supplies the
enemy with water and other necessaries of life.

Of two kings, one owning a fort surrounded by a river, and
another having mountainous fortifications, seizing the former's
land is better, for a fort in the centre of a river can be assailed by a
bridge formed of elephants made to stand in a row in the river or by
wooden bridges, or by means of boats; and the river will not always
be deep and can be emptied of its water, whereas a fort on a
mountain is of a self-defensive nature, and not easy to besiege or to
ascend; and when one portion of the army defending it is routed
out, the other portions can escape unhurt and such a fort is of
immense service, as it affords facilities to throw down heaps of
stone and trees over the enemy.

Which is easier, seizing land from those who fight on plains,
or from those who fight from low grounds?

Seizing the land from the latter is easier, inasmuch as they
have to fight in time and space of adverse nature whereas the
former can fight anywhere and at any time.

Of the two enemies, one fighting from ditches and another
from heights (khanakdkdsayodhibhydm), seizing land from the

411
Kautilya's Arthashastra

former is better; for they can be serviceable inasmuch as they fight
from ditches and with weapons in hand, whereas the latter can only
fight with weapons in hand.

* Whoever, well-versed in the science of polity, wrests land
from such and other enemies will outshine both his allies in
combination with him and enemies out of combination.

[Thus ends Chapter X, "Agreement of Peace for the Acquisition of
Land" in the section of "Agreement for the Acquisition of a Friend,
Gold, or Land and Agreement for Undertaking a Work," in Book
VII, “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and eighth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XI. INTERMINABLE AGREEMENT.

THE agreement made under the condition, "Let us colonize
waste land,” is termed an interminable agreement.

Whoever of the two parties of the agreement colonizes a
fertile land, reaping the harvest earlier, overreaches the other.

Which is better for colonization: a plain or watery land?

A limited tract of land with water is far better than a vast
plain, inasmuch as the former is conducive to the growth of crops
and fruits throughout the year.

Of plains, that which is conducive to the growth of both early
and late crops and which requires less labour and less rain for
cultivation is better than the other of reverse character.

412
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of watery lands, that which is conducive to the growth of
grains is better than another productive of crops other than grains.

Of two watery tracts, one of limited area and conducive to the
growth of grains, and another, vast and productive of crops other
than grains, the latter is better, inasmuch as it affords vast area not
only to grow spices and other medicinal crops, but also to construct
forts and other defensive works in plenty: for fertility and other
qualities of lands are artificial (kritrimah).

Of the two tracts of land, one rich in grains and another in
mines, the latter helps the treasury, while the former can fill both
the treasury and the store-house; and besides this, the construction
of forts and other buildings requires grains. Still, that kind of land
containing mines and which yields precious metals to purchase
large tracts of land is far better.

My teacher says that of the two forests, one productive of
timber, and another of elephants, the former is the source of all
kinds of works and is of immense help in forming a store-house,
while the latter is of reverse character.

Not so, says Kautilya, for it is possible to plant any of
timber-forests in many places, but not an elephant-forest; yet it is
on elephants that the destruction of an enemy's army depends.

Of the two, communication by water and by land, the former
is not long-standing, while the latter can ever be enjoyed.

Which is better, the land with scattered people or that with a
corporation of people?

The former is better inasmuch as it can be kept under control
and is not susceptible to the intrigues of enemys while the latter is

413
Kautilya's Arthashastra

intolerant of calamities and susceptible, of anger and other
passions.

In colonizing a land with four castes, colonization with the
lowest caste is better, inasmuch as it is serviceable in various ways,
plentiful, and permanent.

Of cultivated and uncultivated tracts, the uncultivated tract
may be suitable for various kinds of agricultural operations; and
when it is fertile, adapted for pasture grounds, manufacture of
merchandise, mercantile transactions of borrowing and lending,
and attractive to rich merchants, it is still far better (than a
cultivated tract).

Which is better of the two, the tract of land with forts or that
which is thickly populated?

The latter is better; for that which is thickly populated is a
kingdom in all its senses. What can a depopulated country like a
barren cow be productive of?

The king who is desirous of getting back the land sold for
colonization to another when the latter has lost his men and money
in colonizing it, should first make an agreement with such a
purchaser as is weak, base-born, devoid of energy, helpless, of
unrighteous character, addicted to evil ways, trusting to fate, and
indiscreet in his actions. When the colonization of a land entails
much expenditure of men and money, and when a weak and
base-born man attempts to colonize it, he will perish along with his
people in consequence of his loss of men and money. Though
strong, a base-born man will be deserted by his people who do not
like him lest they may come to grief under him; though possessing
an army, he cannot employ it if he is devoid of energy; and such an
army will perish in consequence of the loss incurred by its master;
though possessing wealth, a man who hesitates to part with his

414
Kautilya's Arthashastra

money and shows favour to none, cannot find help in any quarter;
and when it is easy to drive out a man of unrighteous character
from the colony in which he has firmly established himself, none
can expect that a man of unrighteous character would be capable of
colonizing a tract of waste land and keeping it secure; the same fact
explains the fate of such a colonizer as is addicted to evil ways;
whoever, trusting to fate and putting no reliance on manliness,
withdraws himself from energetic work, will perish without
undertaking anything or without achieving anything from his
undertakings; and whoever is indiscreet in his actions will achieve
nothing, and is the worst of the set of the colonizers.

My teacher says that an indiscreet colonizer may sometimes
betray the weak points of his employer, the conqueror.

But Kautilya says that, just as he betrays the weak points, so
also does he facilitate his destruction by the conqueror.

In the absence of such persons to colonize waste lands, the
conqueror may arrange for the colonization of waste land in the
same way as we shall treat of later on in connection with the
"Capture of an enemy in the rear.”

The above is what is termed verbal agreement
(abhihitasandhih).

When a king of immense power compels another to sell a
portion of the latter's fertile territory of which the former is very
fond, then the latter may make an agreement with the former and
sell the land. This is what is termed "unconcealed peace”
(anibhritasandhih).

When a king of equal power demands land from another as
above, then the latter may sell it after considering "whether the

415
Kautilya's Arthashastra

land can be recovered by me, or can be kept under my control;
whether my enemy can be brought under my power in consequence
of his taking possession of the land; and whether I can acquire by
the sale of the land friends and wealth, enough to help me in my
undertakings.”

This explains the case of a king of inferior power, who
purchases lands.

* Whoever, well versed in the science of polity, thus acquires
friends, wealth, and territory with or without population will
overreach other kings in combination with him.

[Thus ends Chapter XI, "Interminable Agreement” in the section of
"Agreement for the Acquisition of a Friend, Gold, or Land and
Agreement for Undertaking a Work”, Book VII, “The End of the
Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XII. AGREEMENT FOR UNDERTAKING A
WORK.

WHEN an agreement is made on the condition "Let us have a
fort built,” it is termed agreement for undertaking a work.

Whoever of the two kings builds an impregnable fortress on a
spot naturally best fitted for the purpose with less labour and
expenditure overreaches the other.

Of forts such as a fort on a plain, in the centre of a river, and
on a mountain, that which is mentioned later is of more advantage

416
Kautilya's Arthashastra

than the one previously mentioned; of irrigational works
(setu-bandha), that which is of perennial water is better than that
which is fed wit water drawn from other sources; and of works
containing perennial water, that which can irrigate an extensive
area is better.

Of timber forests, whoever plants a forest which produces
valuable articles, which expands into wild tracts, and which
possesses a river on its border overreaches the other, for a forest
containing a river is self-dependent and can afford shelter in
calamities.

Of game-forests, whoever plants a forest full of cruel beasts,
close to an enemy's forest containing wild animals, causing
therefore much harm to the enemy, and extending into an
elephant-forest at the country's border, overreaches the other.

My teacher says that of the two countries, one with a large
number of effete persons, and another with a small number of
brave persons, the latter is better inasmuch as, a few brave persons
can destroy a large mass of effete persons whose slaughter brings
about the destruction of the entire army of their master.

Not so, says Kautilya, a large number of effete persons is
better, inasmuch as they can be employed to do other kinds of
works in the camp: to serve the soldiers fighting in battlefields, and
to terrify the enemy by its number. It is also possible to infuse spirit
and enthusiasm in the timid by means of discipline and training.

Of mines, whoever exploits with less labour and expenditure
a mine of valuable output and of easy communication overreaches
the other.

Which is better of the two, a small mine of valuable yield, or a
big mine productive of commodities of inferior value?

417
Kautilya's Arthashastra

My teacher says that the former is better inasmuch as valuable
products, such as diamonds, precious stones, pearls, corals, gold
and silver, can swallow vast quantities of inferior commodities.

Not so, says Kautilya, for there is the possibility of
purchasing valuable commodities by a mass of accumulated
articles of inferior value, collected from a vast and longstanding
mine of inferior commodities.

This explains the selection of trade-routes:

My teacher says that of the two trade-routes, one by water and
another by land, the former is better, inasmuch as it is less
expensive, but productive of large profit.

Not so, says Kautilya, for water route is liable to obstruction,
not permanent, a source of imminent dangers, and incapable of
defence, whereas a land-route is of reverse nature.

Of water-routes, one along the shore and another in
mid-ocean, the route along, and close to the shore is better, as it
touches at many trading port-towns; likewise river navigation is
better, as it is uninterrupted and is of avoidable or endurable
dangers.

My teacher says that of land-routes, that which leads to the
Himalayas is better than that which leads to the south.

Not so, says Kautilya, for with the exception of blankets,
skins, and horses, other articles of merchandise such as,
conch-shells, diamonds, precious stones, pearls and gold are
available in plenty in the south.

Of routes leading to the south, either that trade-route which

418
Kautilya's Arthashastra

traverses a large number of mines which is frequented by people,
and which is less expensive or troublesome, or that route by taking
which plenty of merchandise of various kinds can be obtained is
better.

This explains the selection of trade-routes leading either to
the east or to the west.

Of a cart-track and a foot-path, a cart-track is better as it
affords facilities for preparations on a large scale.

Routes that can be traversed by asses or camels, irrespective
of countries and seasons are also good.

This explains the selection of trade-routes traversed by men
alone (amsa-patha, shoulder-path, i.e., a path traversed by men
carrying merchandise on their shoulders).

* It is a loss for the conqueror to undertake that kind of work which
is productive of benefits to the enemy, while a work of reverse
nature is a gain. When the benefits are equal, the conqueror has to
consider that his condition is stagnant.

* Likewise it is a loss to undertake a work of less out-put and of a
greater outlay, while a work of reverse nature is a gain. If the
out-put and outlay of a work are at par, the conqueror has to
consider that his condition is stagnant.

* Hence the conqueror should find out such fort-building and other
works as, instead of being expensive, are productive of greater
profit and power. Such is the nature of agreements for undertaking
works.

[Thus ends Chapter XII, "Agreement for Undertaking a Work," in
the section of "Agreement for the Acquisition of a Friend, Gold, or
Land and Agreement for Undertaking a Work™ in Book VIII, "The
End of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of

419
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the hundred and tenth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XIII. CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT AN ENEMY
IN THE REAR.

WHEN the conqueror and his enemy simultaneously
proceeded to capture the rear of their respective enemies who are
engaged in an attack against others, he who captures the rear of one
who is possessed of vast resources gains more advantages
(atisandhatte); for one who is possessed of vast resources has to
put down the rear-enemy only after doing away with one's frontal
enemy already attacked, but not one who is poor in resources and
who has not realised the desired profits.

Resources being equal, he who captures the rear of one who
has made vast preparations gains more advantages for one who has
made vast preparations has to put down the enemy in the rear only
after destroying the frontal enemy, but not one whose preparations
are made on a small scale and whose movements are, therefore,
obstructed by the Circle of States.

Preparations being equal, he who captures the rear of one who
has marched out with all the resources gains more advantages; for
one whose base is undefended is easy to be subdued, but not one
who has marched out with a part of the army after having made
arrangements to defend the rear.

Troops taken being of equal strength, he who captures the rear
of one who has gone against a wandering enemy gains more
advantages; for one who has marched out against a wandering
enemy has to put down the rear-enemy only after obtaining an easy

420
Kautilya's Arthashastra

victory over the wandering enemy; but not one who has marched
out against an entrenched enemy, for one who has marched out
against an entrenched enemy will be repelled in his attack against
the enemy's forts and will, after his return, find himself between the
rear-enemy, and the frontal enemy who is possessed of strong forts.

This explains the cases of other enemies described before.

Enemies being of equal description, he who attacks the rear of
one who has gone against a virtuous king gains more advantages,
for one who has gone against a virtuous king will incur the
displeasure of even his own people, whereas one who has attacked
a wicked king will endear himself to all.

This explains the consequences of capturing the rear of those
who have marched against an extravagant king or a king living
from hand to mouth, or a niggardly king.

The same reasons hold good in the case of those who have
marched against their own friends.

When there are two enemies, one engaged in attacking a
friend and another an enemy, he who attacks the rear of the latter
gains more advantages: for one who has attacked a friend will, after
easily making peace with the friend, proceed against the
rear-enemy; for it is easier to make peace with a friend than with an
enemy.

When there are two kings, one engaged in destroying a friend,
and another an enemy, he who attacks the rear of the former gains
more advantages; for one who is engaged in destroying an enemy
will have the support of his friends and will thereby put down the
rear-enemy, but not the former who is engaged in destroying his
own side.

421
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When the conqueror and his enemy in their attack against the
rear of an enemy mean to enforce the payment of what is not due to
them, he whose enemy has lost considerable profits and has
sustained a great loss of men and money gains more advantages;
when they mean to enforce the payment of what is due to them,
then he whose enemy has lost profits and army, gains more
advantages.

When the assailable enemy is capable of retaliation and when
the assailant's rear-enemy, capable of augmenting his army and
other resources, has entrenched himself on one of the assailants
flanks, then the rear-enemy gains more advantages; for a rear
enemy on one of the assailant’s flanks will not only become a
friend of the assailable enemy, but also attack the base of the
assailant, whereas a rear-enemy behind the assailant can only
harass the rear.

* Kings, capable of harassing the rear of an enemy and of
obstructing his movements are three: the group of kings situated
behind the enemy, and the group of kings on his flanks.

* He who is situated between a conqueror and his enemy is called
an antardhi (one between two kings); when such a king is
possessed of forts, wild tribes, and other kinds of help, he proves an
impediment in the way of the strong.

When the conqueror and his enemy are desirous of catching
hold of a madhyama king and attack the latter's rear, then he who in
his attempt to enforce the promised payment separates the
madhyama king from the latter's friend and obtains, thereby, an
enemy as a friend, gains more advantages; for an enemy compelled
to sue for peace will be of greater help than a friend compelled to
maintain the abandoned friendship.

This explains the attempt to catch hold of a neutral king.

422
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of attacks from the rear and front, that which affords
opportunities of carrying on a treacherous fight (mantrayuddha) is
preferable.

My teacher says that in an open war, both sides suffer by
sustaining a heavy loss of men and money; and that even the king
who wins a victory will appear as defeated in consequence of the
loss of men and money.

No, says Kautilya, even at considerable loss of men and
money, the destruction of an enemy is desirable.

Loss of men and money being equal, he who entirely destroys
first his frontal enemy, and next attacks his rear-enemy gains more
advantages; when both the conqueror and his enemy are severally
engaged in destroying their respective frontal enemies, he who
destroys a frontal enemy of deep rooted enmity and of vast
resources, gains more advantages.

This explains the destruction of other enemies and wild tribes:

* When an enemy in the rear and in the front, and an assailable
enemy to be marched against happen together then the conqueror
should adopt the following policy:--

* The rear-enemy will usually lead the conquerors frontal enemy
to attack the conqueror's friend; then having set the dkranda (the
enemy of the rear-enemy) against the rear-enemy's ally,

* and, having caused war between them, the conqueror should
frustrate the rear-enemy's designs; likewise he should provoke
hostilities between, the allies of the dkranda and of the rear-enemy;
* he should also keep his frontal enemy's friend engaged in war
with his own friend; and with the help of his friend's friend, he
should avert the attack, threatened by the friend of his enemy's
friend;

423
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* he should, with his friend's help, hold his rear-enemy at bay; and
with the help of his friend's friend, he should prevent his
rear-enemy attacking the dkranda (his rear-ally);

* thus the conqueror should, through the aid of his friends, bring
the Circle of States under his own sway both in his rear and front;
* he should send messengers and spies to reside in each of the
states composing the Circle and having again and again destroyed
the strength of his enemies he should keep his counsels concealed,
being friendly with his friends;

* the works of him whose counsels are not kept concealed, will,
though they may prosper for a time, perish as undoubtedly as a
broken raft on the sea.

[Thus ends Chapter XIII, "Considerations about an Enemy in the
Rear," in Book VII, “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and eleventh chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XIV. RECRUITMENT OF LOST POWER.

WHEN the conqueror is thus attacked by the combined army
of his enemies, he may tell their leader: "I shall make peace with
you; this is the gold, and I am the friend; your gain is doubled; it is
not worthy of you to augment at your own expense the power of
your enemies who keep a friendly appearance now; for gaining in
power, they will put you down in the long run.”

Or he may tell the leader so as to break the combination: "Just
as an innocent person like myself is now attacked by the combined
army of these kings, so the very same kings in combination will
attack you in weal or woe; for power intoxicates the mind; hence

424
Kautilya's Arthashastra

break their combination.”

The combination being broken, he may set the leader against
the weak among his enemies; or offering inducements, he may set
the combined power of the weak against the leader; or in whatever
way be may find it to be conducive to his own prosperity, in that
way he may make the leader incur the displeasure of others, and
thus frustrate their attempts; or showing the prospect of a larger
profit, he may through intrigue, make peace with their leader. Then
the recipients of salaries from two states, exhibiting the acquisition
of large profits (to the leader), may satirise the kings, saying, "You
are all very well combined.”

If some of the kings of the combination are wicked, they may
be made to break the treaty; then the recipients of salaries from two
states may again tell them so as to break the combination entirely:
"This is just what we have already pointed out.”

When the enemies are separated, the conqueror may move
forward by catching hold of any of the kings (as an ally).

In the absence of a leader, the conqueror may win him over
who is the inciter of the combination; or who is of a resolute mind,
or who has endeared himself to his people, or who, from greed or
fear, joined the combination, or who is afraid of the conqueror, or
whose friendship with the conqueror is based upon some
consanguinity of royalty, or who is a friend, or who is a wandering
enemy,--in the order of enumeration.

Of these, one has to please the inciter by surrendering oneself;
by conciliation and salutation; him who is of a resolute mind; by
giving a daughter in marriage or by availing oneself of his youth (to
beget a son on one's wife?); him who is the beloved of his people,
by giving twice the amount of profits; him who is greedy, by
helping with men and money; him who is afraid of the

425
Kautilya's Arthashastra

combination, by giving a hostage to him who is naturally timid; by
entering into a closer union with him whose friendship is based
upon some consanguinity of royalty; by doing what is pleasing and
beneficial to both or by abandoning hostilities against him who is a
friend; and by offering help and abandoning hostilities against him
who is a wandering enemy; one has to win over the confidence of
any of the above kings by adopting suitable means or by means of
conciliation, gifts, dissension, or threats, as will be explained under
"Troubles."

He who is in troubles and is apprehensive of an attack from
his enemy, should, on the condition of supplying the enemy with
army and money, make peace with the enemy on definite terms
with reference to place, time, and work; he should also set right any
offence he might have given by the violation of a treaty; if he has
no supporters, he should find them among his relatives and friends;
or he may build an impregnable fortress, for he who is defended by
forts and friends will be respected both by his own and his enemy's
people.

Whoever is wanting in the power of deliberation should
collect wise men around himself, and associate with old men of
considerable learning; thus he would attain his desired ends.

He who is devoid of a good treasury and army should direct
his attention towards the strengthening of the safety and security of
the elements of his sovereignty; for the country is the source of all
those works which are conducive to treasury and army; the haven
of the king and of his army is a strong fort.

Irrigational works (sefubandha) are the source of crops; the

results of a good shower of rain are ever attained in the case of
crops below irrigational works.

426
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The roads of traffic are a means to overreach an enemy; for it
is through the roads of traffic that armies and spies are led (from
one country to another); and that weapons, armour, chariots, and
draught-animals are purchased; and that entrance and exit (in
travelling) are facilitated.

Mines are the source of whatever is useful in battle.

Timber-forests are the source of such materials as are
necessary for building forts, conveyances and chariots.

Elephant-forests are the source of elephants.

Pasture-lands are the source of cows, horses, and camels to
draw chariots.

In the absence of such sources of his own, he should acquire
them from some one among his relatives and friends. If he is
destitute of an army, he should, as far as possible, attract to himself
the brave men of corporations, of thieves, of wild tribes, of
Mlechchhas, and of spies who are capable of inflicting injuries
upon enemies.

He should also adopt the policy of a weak king towards
powerful king in view of averting danger from enemies or friends.

* Thus with the aid of one's own party, the power of
deliberation, the treasury, and the army, one should get rid of the
clutches of one's enemies.

[Thus ends Chapter XIV, “Recruitment of Lost Power,” in Book
VII, “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and twelfth chapter from the
beginning. ]

427
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER XV. MEASURES CONDUCIVE TO PEACE
WITH A STRONG AND PROVOKED ENEMY; AND THE
ATTITUDE OF A CONQUERED ENEMY.

WHEN a weak king is attacked by a powerful enemy, the
former should seek the protection of one who is superior to his
enemy and whom his enemy's power of deliberation for intrigue
cannot affect. Of kings who are equal in the power of deliberation,
difference should be sought in unchangeable prosperity and in
association with the aged.

In the absence of a superior king, he should combine with a
number of his equals who are equal in power to his enemy and
whom his enemy's power of purse, army, and intrigue cannot
reach. Of kings who are equally possessed of the power of purse,
army, and intrigue, difference should be sought in their capacity for
making vast preparations.

In the absence of equals, he should combine with a number of
inferior kings who are pure and enthusiastic, who can oppose the
enemy, and whom his enemy's power of purse, army, and intrigue
cannot react. Of kings who are equally possessed of enthusiasm
and capacity for action, a difference should be sought in the
opportunity of securing favourable battle fields. Of kings who are
equally possessed of favourable battle fields, difference should be
sought in their ever being ready for war. Of kings who are equal
possessed of favourable battlefields and who are equally ready for
war, difference should be sought in their possession of weapons
and armour necessary for war.

In the absence of any such help, he should seek shelter inside
a fort in which his enemy with a large army can offer no
obstruction to the supply of food-stuff, grass, firewood and water,

428
Kautilya's Arthashastra

but would sustain a heavy loss of men and money. When there are
many forts, difference should be sought in their affording facility
for the collection of stores and supplies. Kautilya is of opinion that
one should entrench oneself in a fort inhabited by men and
provided with stores and supplies. Also for the following reasons,
one should shelter oneself in such a fort:--

"I shall oppose him (the enemy) with his rear-enemy's ally or
with a madhyama king, or with a neutral king; I shall either capture
or devastate his kingdom with the aid of a neighbouring king, a
wild tribe, a scion of his family, or an imprisoned prince; by the
help of my partisans with him, I shall create troubles in his fort,
country or camp; when he is near, I shall murder him with
weapons, fire, or poison, or any other secret means at my pleasure;
I shall, cause him to sustain a heavy loss of men and money in
works undertaken by himself or made to be undertaken at the
instance of my spies; I shall easily sow the seeds of dissension
among his friends or his army when they have suffered from loss of
men and money; I shall catch hold of his camp by cutting off
supplies and stores going to it; or by surrendering myself (to him), 1
shall create some weak points in him and put him down with all my
resources; or having curbed his spirit, I shall compel him to make
peace with me on my own terms; when I obstruct his movements
troubles arise to him from all sides; when he is helpless, I shall slay
him with the help of my hereditary army or with his enemy's army;
or with wild tribes; 1 shall maintain the safety and security of my
vast country by entrenching myself within my fort; the army of
myself and of my friends will be invincible when collected
together in this fort; my army which is trained to fight from valleys,
pits, or at night, will bring him into difficulties on his way, when he
is engaged in an immediate work; owing to loss of men and money,
he will make himself powerless when he arrives here at a bad place
and in a bad time; owing to the existence of forts and of wild tribes
(on the way), he will find this country accessible only at

429
Kautilya's Arthashastra

considerable cost of men and money; being unable to find positions
favourable for the exercise of the armies of himself and of his
friends, suffering from disease, he will arrive here in distress; or
having arrived here, he will not return.”

In the absence of such circumstances, or when the enemy's
army is very strong, one may run away abandoning one's fort.

My teacher says that one may rush against the enemy like a
moth against a flame; success in one way or other (i.e., death or
victory) is certain for one who is reckless of life.

No, says Kautilya, having observed the conditions conducive
to peace between himself and his enemy, he may make peace; in
the absence of such conditions, he may, by taking recourse to
threats secure peace or a friend; or he may send a messenger to one
who is likely to accept peace; or having pleased with wealth and
honour the messenger sent by his enemy, he may tell the latter:
"This is the king's manufactory; this is the residence of the queen
and the princes; myself and this kingdom are at your disposal, as
approved of by the queen and the princes."

Having secured his enemy's protection, he should behave
himself like a servant to his master by serving the protector's
occasional needs. Forts and other defensive works, acquisition of
things, celebration of marriages, installation of the heir-apparent,
commercial undertakings, capture of elephants, construction of
covert places for battle (sattra), marching against an enemy, and
holding sports,--all these he should undertake only at the
permission of his protector. He should also obtain his protector’s
permission before making any agreement with people settled in his
country or before punishing those who may run away from his
country. If the citizens and country people living in his kingdom
prove disloyal or inimical to him, he may request of his protector

430
Kautilya's Arthashastra

another good country; or he may get rid of wicked people by
making use of such secret means as are employed against traitors.
He should not accept the offer of a good country even from a
friend. Unknown his protector, he may see the protector's minister,
high priest, commander of the army or heir-apparent. He should
also help his protector as much as he can. On all occasions of
worshipping gods and of making prayers, be should cause his
people to pray for the long life of his protector; and he should
always proclaim his readiness to place himself at the disposal of his
protector.

* Serving him who is strong and combined with others and
being far away from the society of suspected persons, a conquered
king should thus always behave himself towards his protector.

[Thus ends Chapter XV, “Measures Conducive to Peace with a
Strong and Provoked Enemy and the Attitude of a Conquered
Enemy,” in Book VII, “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirteenth chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER XVI. THE ATTITUDE OF A CONQUERED
KING.

IN view of causing financial trouble to his protector, a
powerful vassal king, desirous of making conquests, may, under
the permission of his protector, march on countries where the
formation of the ground and the climate are favourable for the
manceuvre of his army, his enemy having neither forts, nor any
other defensive works, and the conqueror himself having no
enemies in the rear. Otherwise (in case of enemies in the rear), he

431
Kautilya's Arthashastra

should march after making provisions for the defence of his rear.

By means of conciliation and gifts, he should subdue weak
kings; and by means of sowing the seeds of dissension and by
threats, strong kings. By adopting a particular, or an alternative, or
all of the strategic means, he should subdue his immediate and
distant enemies.

He should observe the policy of conciliation by promising the
protection of villages, of those who live in forests, of flocks of
cattle, and of the roads of traffic as well as the restoration of those
who have been banished or who have run away or who have done
some harm.

Gifts of land, of things, and of girls in marriage and absence
of fear,--by declaring these, he should observe the policy of gifts.

By instigating any one of a neighbouring king, a wild chief, a
scion of the enemy's family, or an imprisoned prince, he should
sow the seeds of dissension.

By capturing the enemy in an open battle, or in a treacherous
fight, or through a conspiracy, or in the tumult of seizing the
enemy's fort by strategic means, he should punish the enemy.

He may reinstate kings who are spirited and who can
strengthen his army; likewise he may reinstate those who are
possessed of a good treasury and army and who can therefore help
him with money; as well as those who are wise and who can
therefore provide him with lands.

Whoever among his friends helps him with gems, precious
things, raw materials acquired from commercial towns, villages,
and mines, or with conveyances and draught-animals acquired
from timber and elephant-forests, and herds of cattle, is a friend

432
Kautilya's Arthashastra

affording a variety of enjoyment (chitrabhoga); whoever supplies
him with wealth and army is a friend affording vast enjoyment
(mahdbhoga); whoever supplies him with army, wealth, and lands
is a friend affording all enjoyments (sarvabhoga); whoever
safeguards him against a side-enemy is a friend affording
enjoyments on one side (ekatobhogi); whoever helps also his
enemy and his enemy's allies is a friend affording enjoyment to
both sides (ubhayatobhogi); and whoever helps him against his
enemy, his enemy's ally, his neighbour, and wild tribes is a friend
affording enjoyment on all sides (sarvatobogi).

If he happens to have an enemy in the rear, or a wild chief, or
an enemy, or a chief enemy capable of being propitiated with the
gift of lands, he should provide such an enemy with a useless piece
of land,; an enemy possessed of forts with a piece of land not
connected with his (conqueror’s) own territory; a wild chief with a
piece of land yielding no livelihood; a scion of the enemy's family
with a piece of land that can be taken back; an enemy's prisoner
with a piece of land which is (not?) snatched from the enemy; a
corporation of armed men with a piece of land, constantly under
troubles from an enemy; the combination of corporations with a
piece of land close to the territory of a powerful king; a corporation
invincible in war with a piece of land under both the above
troubles; a spirited king desirous of war with a piece of land which
affords no advantageous positions for the manceuvre of the army;
an enemy's partisan with waste lands; a banished prince with a
piece of land exhausted of its resources; a king who has renewed
the observance of a treaty of peace after breaking it, with a piece of
land which can be colonized at considerable cost of men and
money; a deserted prince with a piece of land which affords no
protection, and his own protector with an uninhabitable piece of
land.

(The king who is desirous of making conquests) should

433
Kautilya's Arthashastra

continue in following the same policy towards him, who, among
the above kings, is most helpful and keeps the same attitude;
should by secret means bring him round who is opposed; should
favour the helpful with facilities for giving further help, besides
bestowing rewards and honour at all costs upon him; should give
relief to him who is under troubles; should receive visitors at their
own choice and afford satisfaction to them; should avoid using
contemptuous, threatening, defamatory, or harsh words towards
them; should like a father protect those who are promised security
from fear; should punish the guilty after publishing their guilt; and
in order to avoid causing suspicion to the protector, the vassal-king
should adopt the procedure of inflicting secret punishments upon
offenders.

He should never covet the land, things, and sons and wives of
the king slain by him; he should reinstate in their own estates the
relatives of the kings slain. He should install in the kingdom the
heir-apparent of the king who has died while working (with the
conqueror); all conquered kings will, if thus treated, loyally follow
the sons and grandsons of the conqueror.

Whoever covets the lands, things, sons, and wives of the
kings whom he has either slain or bound in chains will cause
provocation to the Circle of States and make it rise against himself;
also his own ministers employed in his own territory will be
provoked and will seek shelter under the circle of states, having an
eye upon his life and kingdom.

* Hence conquered kings preserved in their own lands in
accordance with the policy of conciliation will be loyal to the
conqueror and follow his sons and grandsons.

[Thus ends Chapter XVI, "The Attitude of a Conquered King," in
Book VII, "The End of the Six-fold Policy,” of the Arthasdstra of

434
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Kautilya. End of the hundred and fourteenth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVII. MAKING PEACE AND BREAKING IT.

THE words sama (quiet), sandhi (agreement of peace), and
samddhi (reconcilement), are synonymous. That which is
conducive to mutual faith among kings is termed sama, sandhi, or
samddhi.

My teacher says that peace, depended upon honesty or oath, is
mutable, while peace with a security or an hostage is immutable.

No, says Kautilya, peace, dependent upon honesty or oath is
immutable both in this and the next world. It is for this world only
that a security or an hostage is required for strengthening the
agreement.

Honest kings of old made their agreement of peace with this
declaration: "We have joined in peace.”

In case of any apprehension of breach of honesty, they made
their agreement by swearing by fire, water, plough, the brick of a
fort-wall, the shoulder of an elephant, the hips of a horse, the front
of a chariot, a weapon, seeds, scents, juice (rasa), wrought gold
(suvarna), or bullion gold (hiranya), and by declaring that these
things will destroy and desert him who violates the oath.

In order to avoid the contingency of violation of oath, peace
made with the security of such persons as ascetics engaged in
penance, or nobles is peace with a security. In such a peace,
whoever takes as security a person capable of controlling the

435
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enemy gains more advantages, while he who acts to the contrary is
deceived.

In peace made with children as hostages, and in the case of
giving a princess or a prince as an hostage, whoever gives a
princess gains advantages; for a princess, when taken as an
hostage, causes troubles to the receiver, while a prince is of reverse
nature.

With regard to two sons, whoever hands over a highborn,
brave and wise son, trained in military art, or an only son is
deceived, while he who acts otherwise gains advantages. It is better
to give a base-born son as an hostage than a high-born one,
inasmuch as the former has neither heirship nor the right to beget
heirs; it is better to give a stupid son than a wise one, inasmuch as
the former is destitute of the power of deliberation; better to give a
timid son than a brave one, inasmuch as the former is destitute of
martial spirit; better, a son who is not trained in military art than
one who is trained, inasmuch as the former is devoid of the
capacity for striking an enemy; and better one of many sons than an
only son, since many sons are not wanted.

With regard to a high-born and a wise son, people will
continue to be loyal to a highborn son though he is not wise; a wise
son, though base-born, is characterized with capacity to consider
state matters; but so far as capacity to consider state matters is
concerned, a. high-born prince associating himself with the aged,
has more advantages than a wise but base-born prince.

With regard to a wise and a brave prince, a wise prince,
though timid, is characterized with capacity for intellectual works;
and a brave prince though not wise, possesses warlike spirit. So far
as warlike spirit is concerned, a wise prince overreaches a brave
one just as a hunter does an elephant.

436
Kautilya's Arthashastra

With regard to a brave and a trained prince, a brave prince,
though untrained, is characterized with capacity for war; and a
trained prince, though timid, is capable of hitting objects aright.
Notwithstanding the capacity for hitting objects aright, a brave
prince excels a trained prince in determination and firm adherence
to his policy.

With regard to a king having many sons and another an only
son, the former, giving one of his sons as a hostage and being
contented with the rest, is able to break the peace but not the latter.

When peace is made by handing over the whole lot of sons,
advantage is to be sought in capacity to beget additional sons;
capacity to beget additional sons being common, he who can beget
able sons will have more advantages than another king (who is not
so fortunate); capacity to beget able sons being common, he by
whom the birth of a son is early expected will have more
advantages than another (who is not so fortunate).

In the case of an only son who is also brave, he who has lost
capacity to beget any more sons should surrender himself as an
hostage, but not the only son.

Whoever is rising in power may break the agreement of
peace. Carpenters, artisans, and other spies, attending upon the
prince (kept as an hostage) and doing work under the enemy, may
take away the prince at night through an underground tunnel dug
for the purpose. Dancers, actors, singers, players on musical
instruments, buffoons, court-bards, swimmers, and saubhikas (7),
previously set about the enemy, may continue under his service
and may indirectly serve the prince. They should have the privilege
of entering into, staying in and going out of, the palace at any time
without rule. The prince may therefore get out at night disguised as
any one of the above spies.

437
Kautilya's Arthashastra

This explains the work of prostitutes and other women spies
under the garb of wives; the prince may get out, carrying their
pipes, utensils, or vessels.

Or the prince may be removed concealed under things,
clothes, commodities, vessels, beds, seats and other articles by
cooks, confectioners, servants employed to serve the king while
bathing, servants employed for carrying conveyances, for
spreading the bed, toilet-making, dressing, and procuring water; or
taking something in pitch dark, he may get out, disguised as a
servant.

Or he may (pretend to) be in communion with god Varuna in
a reservoir (which is seen) through a tunnel or to which he is taken
at night; spies under the guise of traders dealing in cooked rice and
fruits may (poison those things and) distribute among the sentinels.

Or having served the sentinels with cooked rice and beverage
mixed with the juice of madana plant on occasions of making
offerings to gods or of performing an ancestral ceremony or some
sacrificial rite, the prince may get out; or by bribing the sentinels;
or spies disguised as a ndgaraka (officer in charge of the city), a
court-bard, or a physician may set fire to a building filled with
valuable articles; or sentinels or spies disguised as merchants may
set fire to the store of commercial articles; or in view of avoiding
the fear of pursuit, the prince may, after putting some human body
in the house occupied by him, set fire to it and escape by breaking
open some house-joints, or a window, or through a tunnel; or
having disguised himself as a carrier of glass-beads, pots, and other
commodities, he may set out at night; or having entered the
residence of ascetics with shaven heads or with twisted hair, he
may set out at night, disguised as any one of them; or having
disguised himself as one suffering from a peculiar disease or as a
forest-man, he may get out; or spies may carry him away as a

438
Kautilya's Arthashastra

corpse; or disguised as a widowed wife, be may follow a corpse
that is being carried away. Spies disguised as forest-people, should
mislead the pursuers of the prince by pointing out another
direction, and the prince himself may take a different direction.

Or he may escape, hiding himself in the midst of carts of
cart-drivers; if he is closely followed, he may lead the pursuers to
an ambuscade (sattra); in the absence of an ambuscade he may
leave here and there gold or morsels of poisoned food on both sides
of a road and take a different road.

If he is captured, he should try to win over the pursuers by
conciliation and other means, or serve them with poisoned food;
and having caused another body to be put in a sacrifice performed
to please god Varuna or in a fire that has broken out (the prince's
father), may accuse the enemy of the murder of his son and attack
the enemy.

* Or taking out a concealed sword, and falling upon the
sentinels, he may quickly run away together with the spies
concealed before.

[Thus ends Chapter XVII, “Making Peace and Breaking It,” in
Book VII, “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and fifteenth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER XVIII. THE CONDUCT OF A MADHYAMA
KING, A NEUTRAL KING, AND OF A CIRCLE OF
STATES.

439
Kautilya's Arthashastra

THE third and the fifth states from a madhyama king are states
friendly to him; while the second, the fourth, and the sixth are
unfriendly. If the madhyama king shows favour to both of these
states, the conqueror should be friendly with him; if he does not
favour them, the conqueror should be friendly with those states.

If the madhyama king is desirous of securing the friendship
of the conqueor's would-be friend, then having set his own and his
friend's friends against the madhyama, and having separated the
madhyama from the latter's friends, the conqueror should preserve
his own friend; or the conqueror may incite the Circle of States
against the madhyama by telling them; "this madhyama king has
grown haughty, and is aiming at our destruction: let us therefore
combine and interrupt his march.”

If the Circle of States is favourable to his cause, then he may
aggrandise himself by putting down the madhyama; if not
favourable, then having helped his friend with men and money, he
should, by means of conciliation and gifts, win over either the
leader or a neigbbouring king among the kings who hate the
madhyama, or who have been living with mutual support, or who
will follow the one that is won over (by the conqueror), or who do
not rise owing to mutual suspicion; thus by winning over a second
(king), he should double his own power; by securing a third, he
should treble his own power; thus gaining in strength, he should
put down the madhyama king.

When place and time are found unsuitable for success in the
above attempt, he should, by peace, seek the friendship of one of
the enemies of the madhyama king, or cause some traitors to
combine against the madhyama; if the madhyama king is desirous
of reducing the conqueror's friend, the conqueror should prevent it,
and tell the friend: "I shall protect you as long as you are weak,"
and should accordingly protect him when he is poor in resources; if

440
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the madhyama king desires to rout out a friend of the conqueror,
the latter should protect him in his difficulties; or having removed
him from the fear of the madhyama king, the conqueror should
provide him with new lands and keep him under his (the
conqueror’s) protection, lest he might go elsewhere.

If, among the conqueror’s friends who are either reducible or
assailable enemies of the madhyama king, some undertake to help
the madhyama, then the conqueror should make peace with a third
king; and if among the madhyama king's friends who are either
reducible or assailable enemies of the conqueror, some are capable
of offence and defence and become friendly to the conqueror, then
he should make peace with them; thus the conqueror cannot only
attain his own ends, but also please the madhyama king.

If the madhyama king is desirous of securing a would-be
friend of the conqueror as a friend, then the conqueror may make
peace with another king, or prevent the friend from going to the
madhyama, telling him: "It is unworthy of you to forsake a friend
who is desirous of your friendship,” or the conqueror may keep
quiet, if the conqueror thinks that the Circle of States would be
enraged against the friend for deserting his own party. If the
madhyama king is desirous of securing the conqueror’s enemy as
his friend, then the conqueror should indirectly (i.e., without being
known to the madhyama) help the enemy with wealth and army.

If the madhyama king desires to win the neutral king, the
conqueror should sow the seeds of dissension between them.
Whoever of the madhyama and the neutral kings is esteemed by the
Circle of States, his protection should the conqueror seek.

The conduct of the madhyama king explains that of the
neutral king. If the neutral king is desirous of combining with the
madhyama king, then the conqueror should so attempt as to

441
Kautilya's Arthashastra

frustrate the desire of the neutral king to overreach an enemy or to
help a friend or to secure the services of the army of another neutral
king. Having thus strengthened himself, the conqueror should
reduce his enemies and help his friends, though their position is
inimical towards him.

Those who may be inimical to the conqueror are a king who is
of wicked character and who is therefore always harmful, a
rear-enemy in combination with a frontal enemy, a reducible
enemy under troubles, and one who is watching the troubles of the
conqueror to invade him.

Those who may be friendly with the conqueror are one who
marches with him with the same end in view, one who marches
with him with a different end in view, one who wants to combine
with the conqueror to march (against a common enemy), one who
marches under an agreement for peace, one who marches with a set
purpose of, his own, one who rises along with others, one who is
ready to purchase or to sell either the army or the treasury, and one
who adopts the double policy (i.e., making peace with one and
waging war with another).

Those neighbouring kings who can be servants to the
conqueror are a neighbouring king under the apprehension of an
attack from a powerful king, one who is situated between the
conqueror and his enemy, the rear-enemy of a powerful king, one
who has voluntarily surrendered one-self to the conqueror, one
who has surrendered oneself under fear, and one who has been
subdued. The same is the case with those kings who are next to the
territory of the immediate enemies of the conqueror.

* Of these kings, the conqueror should, as far as possible, help that
friend who has the same end in view as the conqueror in his
conflict with the enemy, and thus hold the enemy at bay.

* When, after having put down the enemy, and after having grown

442
Kautilya's Arthashastra

in power, a friend becomes unsubmissive, the conqueror should
cause the friend to incur the displeasure of a neighbour and of the
king who is next to the neighbour.

* Or the conqueror may employ a scion of the friend's family or an
imprisoned prince to seize his lands; or the conqueror may so act
that his friend, desirous of further help, may continue to be
obedient.

* The conqueror should never help his friend when the latter is
more and more deteriorating; a politician should so keep his friend
that the latter neither deteriorates nor grows in power.

* When, with the desire of getting wealth, a wandering friend (i.e., a
nomadic king) makes an agreement with the conqueror, the latter
should so remove the cause of the friend's flight that he never flies
again.

* When a friend is as accessible to the conqueror as to the latter's
enemy, the conqueror should first separate that obstinate friend
from the enemy, and then destroy him, and afterwards the enemy
also.

* When a friend remains neutral, the conqueror should cause him
to incur the displeasure of his immediate enemies; and when he is
worried in his wars with them, the conqueror should oblige him
with help.

* When, owing to his own weakness, a friend seeks protection both
from the conqueror and the latter's enemy, the conqueror should
help him with the army, so that he never turns his attention
elsewhere.

* Or having, removed him from his own lands, the conqueror may
keep him in another tract of land, having made some previous
arrangements to punish or favour the friend.

* Or the conqueror may harm him when he has grown powerful, or
destroy him when he does nut help the conqueror in danger and
when he lies on the conqueror's lap in good faith.

* When an enemy furiously rises against his own enemy (i.e., the
conqueror’s friend) under troubles, the former should be put down

443
Kautilya's Arthashastra

by the latter himself with troubles concealed.

* When a friend keeps quiet after rising against an enemy under
troubles, that friend will be subdued by the enemy himself after
getting rid of his troubles.

* Whoever is acquainted with the science of polity should clearly
observe the conditions of progress, deterioration, stagnation,
reduction, and destruction, as well as the use of all kinds of
strategic means.

* Whoever thus knows the interdependence of the six kinds of
policy plays at his pleasure with kings, bound round, as it were, in
chains skillfully devised by himself.

[Thus ends Chapter XVIII, "The Conduct of a Madhyama King, a
Neutral King and of a Circle of States,” in Book VII, "The End of
the Six-fold Policy” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
hundred and sixteenth chapter from the beginning. With this ends
the seventh Book “The End of the Six-fold Policy” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamashastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 327-389.

Kautilya's  Arthasastra: Book VIII,
"Concerning Vices and Calamities"

CHAPTER I. THE AGGREGATE OF THE CALAMITIES
OF THE ELEMENTS OF SOVEREIGNTY.

WHEN calamities happen together, the form of consideration

444
Kautilya's Arthashastra

should be whether it is easier to take an offensive or defensive
attitude. National calamities, coming from Providence or from man
happen from one's misfortune or bad policy. The word vyasana
(vices or calamities), means the reverse or absence of virtue, the
preponderance of vices, and occasional troubles. That which
deprives (vyasyati) a person of his happiness is termed vyasana
(vices or calamities).

My teacher says that of the calamities, viz., the king in
distress, the minister in distress, the people in distress, distress due
to bad fortifications, financial distress, the army in distress, and an
ally in distress,--that which is first mentioned is more serious than
the one, coming later in the order of enumeration.

No, says Bharadvdja, of the distress of the king and of his
minister, ministerial distress is more serious; deliberations in
council, the attainment of results as anticipated while deliberating
in council, the accomplishment of works, the business of
revenue-collection and its expenditure, recruiting the army, the
driving out of the enemy and of wild tribes, the protection of the
kingdom, taking remedial measures against calamities, the
protection of the heir-apparent, and the installation of princes
constitute the duties of ministers. In the absence of ministers; the
above works are ill-done; and like a bird, deprived of its feathers,
the king loses his active capacity. In such calamities, the intrigues
of the enemy find a ready scope. In ministerial distress, the king's
life itself comes into danger, for a minister is the mainstay of the
security of the king's life.

No, says Kautilya, it is verily the king who attends to the
business of appointing ministers, priests, and other servants,
including the superintendents of several departments, the
application of remedies against the troubles of his people, and of
his kingdom, and the adoption of progressive measures; when his

445
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ministers fall into troubles, he employs others; he is ever ready to
bestow rewards on the worthy and inflict punishments on the
wicked; when the king is well off, by his welfare and prosperity, he
pleases the people; of what kind the king's character is, of the same
kind will be the character of his people; for their progress or
downfall, the people depend upon the king; the king is, as it were,
the aggregate of the people.

Visdldksha says that of the troubles of the minister and of the
people; the troubles of the people are more serious; finance, army,
raw products, free labour, carriage of things, and collection (of
necessaries) are all secured from the people. There will be no such
things in the absence of people, next to the king and his minister.

No, says Kautilya, all activities proceed from the minister,
activities such as the successful accomplishment of the works of
the people, security of person and property from internal and
external enemies, remedial measures against calamities,
colonization and improvement of wild tracts of land, recruiting the
army, collection of revenue, and bestowal of favour.

The school of Pardsara say that of the distress of the people
and distress due to bad fortifications, the latter is a more serious
evil; for it is in fortified towns that the treasury and the army are
secured; they (fortified towns) are a secure place for the people;
they are a stronger power than the citizens or country people; and
they are a powerful defensive instrument in times of danger for the
king. As to the people, they are common both to the king and his
enemy.

No, says Kautilya, for forts, finance, and the army depend
upon the people; likewise buildings, trade, agriculture,
cattle-rearing, bravery, stability, power, and abundance (of things).
In countries inhabited by people, there are mountains and islands

446
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(as natural forts); in the absence of an expansive country, forts are
resorted to. When a country consists purely of cultivators, troubles
due to the absence of fortifications (are apparent); while in a
country which consists purely of warlike people, troubles that may
appear are due to the absence of (an expansive and cultivated)
territory.

Pisuna says that of the troubles due to the absence of forts and
to want of finance, troubles due to want of finance are more
serious; the repair of fortifications and their maintenance depend
upon finance; by means of wealth, intrigue to capture an enemy's
fort may be carried on; by means of wealth, the people, friends, and
enemies can be kept under control; by means of it, outsiders can be
encouraged and the establishment of the army and its operations
conducted. It is possible to remove the treasure in times of danger,
but not the fort.

No, says Kautilya, for it is in the fort that the treasury and the
army are safely kept, and it is from the fort that secret war
(intrigue), control over one's partisans, the upkeep of the army, the
reception of allies and the driving out of enemies and of wild tribes
are successfully practised. In the absence of forts, the treasury is to
the enemy, for it seems that for those who own forts, there is no
destruction.

Kaunapadanta says that of distress due to want of finance or
to an inefficient army, that which is due to the want of an efficient
army is more serious; for control over one's own friends and
enemies, the winning over the army of an enemy, and the business
of administration are all dependent upon the army. In the absence
of the army, it is certain that the treasury will be lost, whereas lack
of finance can be made up by procuring raw products and lands or
by seizing an enemy's territory.

The army may go to the enemy, or murder the king himself,

447
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and bring about all kinds of troubles. But finance is the chief means
of observing virtuous acts and of enjoying desires. Owing to a
change in place, time, and policy, either finance or the army may
be a superior power; for the army is (sometimes) the means of
securing the wealth acquired; but wealth is (always) the means of
securing both the treasury and the army. Since all activities are
dependent upon finance, financial troubles are more serious.

Vitavyddhi says that of the distress of the army and of an ally,
the distress of an ally is more serious--an ally, though he is not fed
and is far off, is still serviceable; he drives off not only the
rear-enemy and the friends of the rear-enemy, but also the frontal
enemy and wild tribes; he also helps his friend with money, army,
and lands on occasions of troubles.

No, says Kautilya, the ally of him who has a powerful army
keeps the alliance; and even the enemy assumes a friendly attitude;
when there is a work that can be equally accomplished either by the
army or by an ally, then preference to the army or to the ally should
depend on the advantages of securing the appropriate place and
time for war and the expected profit. In times of sudden expedition
and on occasions of troubles from an enemy, a wild tribe, or local
rebels, no friend can be trusted. When calamities happen together,
or when an enemy has grown strong, a friend keeps up his
friendship as long as money is forthcoming. Thus the
determination of the comparative seriousness of the calamities of
the various elements of sovereignty.

* When a part of one of the elements of sovereignty is under
troubles, the extent, affection, and strength of the serviceable part
can be the means of accomplishing a work.

* When any two elements of sovereignty are equally under
troubles, they should be distinguished in respect of their
progressive or declining tendency, provided that the good

448
Kautilya's Arthashastra

condition of the rest of the elements needs no description.

* When the calamities of a single element tend to destroy the rest of
the elements, those calamities, whether they be of the fundamental
or any other element, are verily serious.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “The Aggregate of the Calamities of the
Elements of Sovereignty,” in Book VIII, “Concerning Vices and
Calamities” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
seventeenth chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT THE
TROUBLES OF THE KING AND OF HIS KINGDOM.

THE king and his kingdom are the primary elements of the
state.

The troubles of the king may be either internal or external.
Internal troubles are more serious than external troubles which are
like the danger arising from a lurking snake. Troubles due to a
minister are more serious than other kinds of internal troubles.
Hence, the king should keep under his own control the powers of
finance and the army.

Of divided rule and foreign rule, divided rule or rule of a
country by two kings, perishes owing to mutual hatred, partiality
and rivalry. Foreign rule which comes into existence by seizing the
country from its king still alive, thinks that the country is not its
own, impoverishes it, and carries off its wealth, or treats it as a
commercial article; and when the country ceases to love it, it retires
abandoning the country.

Which is better, a blind king, or a king erring against the
science?

449
Kautilya's Arthashastra

My teacher says that a blind king, i.e., a king who is not
possessed of an eye in sciences, is indiscriminate in doing works,
very obstinate, and is led by others; such a king destroys the
kingdom by his own maladministration. But an erring king can be
easily brought round when and where his mind goes astray from
the procedure laid down in sciences.

No, says Kautilya, a blind king can be made by his supporters
to adhere to whatever line of policy he ought to. But an erring king
who is bent upon doing what is against the science, brings about
destruction to himself and his kingdom by maladministration.

Which is better, a diseased or a new king ?

My teacher says that a diseased king loses his kingdom owing
to the intrigue of his ministers, or loses his life on account of the
kingdom; but a new king pleases the people by such popular deeds
as the observance of his own duties and the act of bestowing
favours, remissions (of taxes), gifts, and presents upon others.

No, says Kautilya, a diseased king continues to observe his
duties as usual. But a new king begins to act as he pleases under the
impression that the country, acquired by his own might, belongs to
himself; when pressed by combined kings (for plunder), he
tolerates their oppression of the country. Or having no firm control
over the elements of the state, he is easily removed. There is this
difference among diseased kings: a king who is morally diseased,
and a king who is suffering from physical disease; there is also this
difference among new kings: a high-born king and a base-born
king.

Which is better, a weak but high-born king, or a strong but
low-born king?

450
Kautilya's Arthashastra

My teacher says that a people, even if interested in having a
weak king, hardly allow room for the intrigues of a weak but
high-born person to be their king; but that if they desire power,
they will easily yield themselves to the intrigues of a strong but
base-born person to be their king.

No, says Kautilya, a people will naturally obey a high-born
king though he is weak, for the tendency of a prosperous people is
to follow a high-born king. Also they render the intrigues of a
strong but base-born person, unavailing, as the saying is, that
possession of virtues makes for friendship.

The destruction of crops is worse than the destruction of
handfuls (of grains), since it is the labour that is destroyed thereby;
absence of rain is worse than too much rain.

* The comparative seriousness or insignificance of any two
kinds of troubles affecting the elements of sovereignty, in the order
of enumeration of the several kinds of distress, is the cause of
adopting offensive or defensive operations.

[Thus ends Chapter 11, "Considerations about the Troubles of the
King and of his Kingdom,” in Book VIII, “Conceming Vices and
Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and eighteenth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. THE AGGREGATE OF THE TROUBLE OF
MEN.

IGNORANCE and absence of discipline are the causes of a
man's troubles. An untrained man does not perceive the injuries
arising from vices. We are going to treat of them (vices):--

451
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Vice's due to anger form a triad; and those due to desire are
fourfold. Of these two, anger is worse, for anger proceeds against
all. In a majority of cases, kings given to anger are said to have
fallen a prey to popular fury. But kings addicted to pleasures have
perished in consequence of serious diseases brought about by
deterioration and improverishment.

No, says Bhdradvdja, anger is the characteristic of a
righteous man. It is the foundation of bravery; it puts an end to
despicable (persons); and it keeps the people under fear. Anger is
always a necessary quality for the prevention of sin. But desire
(accompanies) the enjoyment of results, reconciliation, generosity,
and the act of endearing oneself to all. Possession of desire is
always necessary for him who is inclined to enjoy the fruits of what
he has accomplished.

No, says Kautilya, anger brings about enmity with, and
troubles from, an enemy, and is always associated with pain.
Addiction to pleasure (kdma) occasions contempt and loss of
wealth, and throws the addicted person into the company of
thieves, gamblers, hunters, singers, players on musical
instruments, and other undesirable persons. Of these, enmity is
more serious than contempt, for a despised person is caught hold of
by his own people and by his enemies, whereas a hated person is
destroyed. Troubles from an enemy are more serious than loss of
wealth, for loss of wealth causes financial troubles, whereas
troubles from an enemy are injurious to life. Suffering on account
of vices is more serious than keeping company with undesirable
persons, for the company of undesirable persons can be got rid of
in a moment, whereas suffering from vices causes injury for a long
time. Hence, anger is a more serious evil.

Which is worse: abuse of language, or of money, or
oppressive punishment?

452
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Visdldksha says that of abuse of language and of money,
abuse of language is worse; for when harshly spoken to, a brave
man retaliates; and bad language, like a nail piercing the heart,
excites anger and gives pain to the senses.

No, says Kautilya, gift of money palliates the fury occasioned
by abusive language, whereas abuse of money causes the loss of
livelihood itself. Abuse of money means gifts, exaction, loss or
abandonment of money.

The School of Pardsara say that of abuse of money and
oppressive punishment, abuse of money is worse; for good deeds
and enjoyments depend upon wealth; the world itself is bound by
wealth. Hence, its abuse is a more serious evil.

No, says Kautilya, in preference to a large amount of wealth,
no man desires the loss of his own life. Owing to oppressive
punishment, one is liable to the same punishment at the hands of
one's enemies.

Such is the nature of the triad of evils due to anger.

The fourfold vices due to desire are hunting, gambling,
women and drinking.

Pisuna says that of hunting and gambling, hunting is a worse
vice; for falling into the hand of robbers, enemies and elephants,
getting into wild fire, fear, inability to distinguish between the
cardinal points, hunger, thirst and loss of life are evils consequent
upon hunting, whereas in gambling, the expert gambler wins a
victory like Jayatsena and Duryodhana.

No, says Kautilya, of the two parties, one has to suffer from
defeat, as is well known from the history of Nala and Yudhishthira;

453
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the same wealth that is won like a piece of flesh in gambling,
causes enmity. Lack of recognition of wealth properly acquired,
acquisition of ill-gotten wealth, loss of wealth without enjoyment,
staying away from answering the calls of nature, and contracting
diseases from not taking timely meals, are the evils of gambling,
whereas in hunting, exercise, the disappearance of phlegm, bile,
fat, and sweat, the acquisition of skill in aiming at stationary and
moving bodies, the ascertainment of the appearance of beasts when
provoked, and occasional march (are its good characteristics).

Kaunapadanta says that of addiction to gambling and to
women, gambling is a more serious evil; for gamblers always play,
even at night by lamp light, and even when the mother (of one of
the players) is dead; the gambler exhibits anger when spoken to in
times of trouble; whereas in the case of addiction to women, it is
possible to hold conversation about virtue and wealth, at the time
of bathing, dressing and eating. Also it is possible to make, by
means of secret punishment, a woman to be so good as to secure
the welfare of the king, or to get rid of her, or drive her out, under
the plea of disease.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to divert the attention from
gambling, but not so from women. (The evils of the latter are)
failure to see (what ought to be seen), violation of duty, the evil of
postponing works that are to be immediately done, incapacity to
deal with politics, and contracting the evil of drinking.

Vitavyddhi says that of addiction to women and to drinking,
addiction to women is a more serious evil: there are various kinds
of childishness among women, as explained in the chapter on “The
Harem,” whereas in drinking, the enjoyment of sound and other
objects of the senses, pleasing other people, honouring the
followers, and relaxation from the fatigue of work (are the
advantages).

454
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, in the case of addiction to women, the
consequences are the birth of children, self-protection, change of
wives in the harem, and absence of such consequences in the case
of unworthy outside women. Both the above consequences follow
from drinking. The auspicious effects of drinking are loss of
money, lunacy in a sensate man, corpselike appearance while
living, nakedness, the loss of the knowledge of the Vedas, loss of
life, wealth, and friends, disassociation with the good, suffering
from pain, and indulgence in playing on musical instruments and in
singing at the expense of wealth.

Of gambling and drinking, gambling causes gain or loss of the
stakes to one party or other. Even among dumb animals, it splits
them into factions and causes provocation. It is specially due to
gambling that assemblies and royal confederacies possessing the
characteristics of assemblies are split into factions, and are
consequently destroyed. The reception of what is condemned is the
worst of all evils since it causes incapacity to deal with politics.

* The reception of what is condemned is (due to) desire; and anger
consists in oppressing the good; since both these are productive of
many evils, both of them are held to be the worst evils.

* Hence be who is possessed of discretion should associate with
the aged, and, after controlling his passions, abandon both anger
and desire which are productive of other evils and destructive of
the very basis (of life).

[Thus ends Chapter III, "The Aggregate of the Troubles of Men,"
in Book VIII. "Concerning Vices and Calamities” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and nineteenth chapter
from the beginning.]

455
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER IV. THE GROUP OF MOLESTATIONS, THE
GROUP OF OBSTRUCTIONS, AND THE GROUP OF
FINANCIAL TROUBLES.

PROVIDENTIAL calamities are fire, floods, pestilence,
famine, and (the epidemic disease called) maraka.

My teacher says that of fire and floods, destruction due to fire
is irremediable; all kinds of troubles, except those due to fire, can
be alleviated, and troubles due to floods can be passed over.

No, says Kautilya, fire destroys a village, or part of a village
whereas floods carry off hundreds of villages.

My teacher says that of pestilence and famine, pestilence
brings all kinds of business to a stop by causing obstruction to work
on account of disease and death among men and owing to the flight
of servants, whereas famine stops no work, but is productive of
gold, cattle and taxes.

No, says Kautilya, pestilence devastates only a part (of the
country) and can be remedied, whereas famine causes troubles to
the whole (of the country) and occasions dearth of livelihood to all
creatures.

This explains the consequences of maraka.

My teacher says that of the loss of chief and vulgar men, the
loss of vulgar men causes obstruction to work.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to recruit vulgar men, since
they form the majority of people; for the sake of vulgar men,
nobles should not be allowed to perish; one in a thousand may or
may not be a noble man; he it is who is possessed of excessive
courage and wisdom and is the refuge of vulgar people.

456
Kautilya's Arthashastra

My teacher says that of the troubles arising from one's own or
one’s enemy's Circle of States, those due to one's own Circle are
doubly injurious and are irremediable, whereas an inimical Circle
of States can be fought out or kept away by the intervention of an
ally or by making peace.

No, says Kautilya, troubles due to one's own Circle can be got
rid of by arresting or destroying the leaders among the subjective
people; or they may be injurious to a part of the country, whereas
troubles due to an enemy's Circle of States cause oppression by
inflicting loss and destruction and by burning, devastation, and
plunder.

My teacher says that of the quarrels among the people and
among kings, quarrel among the people brings about disunion and
thereby enables an enemy to invade the country, whereas quarrel
among kings is productive of double pay and wages and of
remission of taxes to the people.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to end the quarrel among the
people by arresting the leaders, or by removing the cause of
quarrel; and people quarrelling among themselves vie with each
other and thereby help the country, whereas quarrel among kings
causes trouble and destruction to the people and requires double
the energy for its settlement.

My teacher says that of a sportive king and a sportive country,
a sportive country is always ruinous to the results of work, whereas
a sportive king is beneficial to artisans, carpenters, musicians,
buffoons and traders.

No, says Kautilya, a sportive country, taking to sports for
relaxation from labour, causes only a trifling loss; and after
enjoyment, it resumes work, whereas a sportive king causes

457
Kautilya's Arthashastra

oppression by showing indulgence to his courtiers, by seizing and
begging, and by obstructing work in the manufactories.

My teacher says that of a favourite wife and a prince, the
prince causes oppression by showing indulgence to his followers,
by seizing and begging, and by obstructing the work in
manufactories whereas the favourite wife is addicted to her
amorous Sports.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to prevent through the
minister and the priest, the oppression caused by the prince, but not
the oppression caused by the favourite wife, since she is usually
stubborn and keeps company with wicked persons.

My teacher says that of the troubles due to a corporation of
people and to a leader (a chief), the corporation of people people
cannot be put down since it consists of a number of men and causes
oppression by theft and violence, whereas a leader causes troubles
by obstruction to, and destruction of, work.

No, says Kautilya, it is very easy to get rid of (the troubles
from) a corporation; since it has to rise or fall with the king; or it
can be put down by arresting its leader or a part of the corporation
itself, whereas a leader backed up with support causes oppression
by injuring the life and property of others.

My teacher says that of the chamberlain and the collector of
revenue, the chamberlain causes oppression by spoiling works and
by inflicting fines, whereas the collector of revenue makes use of
the ascertained revenue in the department over which he presides.

No, says Kautilya, the chamberlain takes to himself what is
presented by others to be entered into the treasury whereas the
collector makes his own revenue first and then the kings’; or he

458
Kautilya's Arthashastra

destroys the kings’ revenue and proceeds as he pleases to seize the
property of others.

My teacher says that of the superintendent of the boundary
and a trader, the superintendent of the boundary destroys traffic by
allowing thieves and taking taxes more than he ought to, whereas a
trader renders the country prosperous by a favourable barter of
commercial articles.

No, says Kautilya, the superintendent of the boundary
increases commercial traffic by welcoming the arrival of
merchandise, whereas traders unite in causing rise and fall in the
value of articles, and live by making profits cent per cent in panas
or kumbhas (measures of grain).

Which is more desirable, land occupied by a high-born person
or land reserved for grazing a flock of cattle?

My teacher says that the land occupied by a high-born person
is very productive; and it supplies men to the army; hence it does
not deserve to be confiscated lest the owner might cause troubles,
whereas the land occupied for grazing a flock of cattle is cultivable
and deserves therefore to be freed, for cultivable land is preferred
to pasture land.

No, says Kautilya, though immensely useful, the land
occupied by a high-born person deserves to be freed, lest he might
cause troubles (otherwise), whereas the land held for grazing a
flock of cattle is productive of money and beasts, and does not
therefore deserve to be confiscated unless cultivation of crops is
impeded thereby.

My teacher says that of robbers and wild tribes, robbers are
ever bent on carrying off women at night, make assaults on
persons, and take away hundreds and thousands of panas, whereas

459
Kautilya's Arthashastra

wild tribes, living under a leader and moving in the neighbouring
forests can be seen here and there causing destruction only to a
part.

No, says Kautilya, robbers carry off the property of the
careless and can be put down as they are easily recognized and
caught hold of, whereas wild tribes have their own strongholds,
being numerous and brave, ready to fight in broad daylight, and
seizing and destroying countries like kings.

Of the forests of beasts and of elephants, beasts are numerous
and productive of plenty of flesh and skins; they arrest the growth
of the grass and are easily controlled, whereas elephants are of the
reverse nature and are seen to be destructive of countries even
when they are captured and tamed.

Of benefits derived from one's own or a foreign country,
benefits derived from one's own country consists of grains, cattle,
gold, and raw products and are useful for the maintenance of the
people in calamities, whereas benefits derived from a foreign
country are of the reverse nature.

Such is the group of molestations.

Obstruction to movements caused by a chief is internal
obstruction; and obstruction to movements caused by an enemy or
a wild tribe is external obstruction.

Such is the group of obstructions.

Financial troubles due to the two kinds of obstruction and to
the molestations described above are stagnation of financial
position, loss of wealth due to the allowance of remission of taxes
in favour of leaders, scattered revenue, false account of revenue
collected, and revenue left in the custody of a neighbouring king or

460
Kautilya's Arthashastra

of a wild tribe.
Thus the group of financial troubles.

* In the interests of the prosperity of the country, one should
attempt to avoid the cause of troubles, remedy them when they
happen, and avert obstructions and financial troubles.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "The Group of Molestations, the Group of
Obstructions, and the Group of Financial Troubles" in Book VIII,
"Concerning Vices and Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and twentieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. THE GROUP OF TROUBLES OF THE
ARMY, AND THE GROUP OF TROUBLES OF A FRIEND.

The troubles of the army are--That which is disrespected; that
which is mortified; that which is not paid for; that which is
diseased; that which has freshly arrived; that which has made a
long journey; that which is tired; that which has sustained loss; that
which has been repelled; that of which the front portion is
destroyed; that which is suffering from inclemency of weather; that
which has found itself in an unsuitable ground; that which is
displeased from disappointment; that which has run away; that of
which the men are fond of their wives; that which contains traitors;
that of which the prime portion is provoked; that which has
dissensions; that which has come from a foreign state; that which
has served in many states; that which is specially trained to a
particular kind of manceuvre and encampment; that which is
trained to a particular movement in a particular place; that which is

461
Kautilya's Arthashastra

obstructed; that which is surrounded; that which has its supply of
grains cut off; that which has its men and stores cut off; that which
is kept in one's own country; that which is under the protection of
an ally; that which contains inimical persons; that which is afraid
of an enemy in the rear; that which has lost its communication; that
which has lost its commander; that which has lost its leader; and
that which is blind (i.e., untrained).

Of the disrespected and the mortified among these, that which
is disrespected may be taken to fight after being honoured, but not
that which is suffering from its own mortification.

Of unpaid and diseased armies, the unpaid may be taken to
fight after making full payment but not the diseased, which is unfit
for work.

Of freshly arrived and long-travelled armies, that which has
freshly arrived may be taken to fight after it has taken its position
without mingling with any other new army, but not that which is
tired from its long journey.

Of tired and reduced armies, the army that is tired may be
taken to fight after it has refreshed itself from bathing, eating, and
sleeping, but not the reduced army, i.e., the army, the leaders of
which have been killed.

Of armies which have either been repelled or have their front
destroyed, that which has been repelled may be taken to fight
together with fresh men attached to it, but not the army which has
lost many of its brave men in its frontal attack.

Of armies, either suffering from inclemency of weather or
driven to an unsuitable ground, that which is suffering from
inclemency of weather may be taken to fight after providing it with
weapons and dress appropriate for the season, but not the army on

462
Kautilya's Arthashastra

an unfavourable ground obstructing its movements.

Of disappointed and renegade armies, that which is
disappointed may be taken to fight after satisfying it but not the
army which has (once) run away.

Of soldiers who are either fond of their wives or are under an
enemy, those who are fond of their wives may be taken to fight
after separating them from their wives; but not those who are under
an enemy, and are, therefore, like internal enemies.

Of provoked and disunited armies, that, of which a part is
provoked, may be taken to fight after pacifying it by conciliation
and other strategic means but not the disunited army, the members
of which are estranged from each other.

Of armies which have left service either in one state or in
many states, that whose resignation of service in a foreign state is
not due to instigation or conspiracy may be taken to fight under the
leadership of spies and friends, but not the army which has
resigned its service in many states and is, therefore, dangerous.

Of armies which are trained either to a particular kind of
manceuvre and encampment or to a particular movement in a
particular place, that which is taught a special kind of manceuvre
and encampment may be taken to fight, but not the army whose
way of making encampments and marches is only suited for a
particular place.

Of obstructed and surrounded armies, that which is
prevented from its movements in one direction may be taken to
fight against the obstructor in another direction, but not the army
whose movements are obstructed on all sides.

463
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of troops whose supply of grain is cut off or whose supply of
men and stores is cut off, that which has lost its supply of grain may
be taken to fight after providing it with grain brought from another
quarter or after supplying to it moveable and immoveable
food-stuffs (animal and vegetable food-stuffs) but not the army to
which men and provisions cannot be supplied.

Of armies kept in one's own country or under the protection of
an ally, that which is kept in one's own country can possibly be
disbanded in time of danger, but not the army under the protection
of an ally, as it is far removed in place and time.

Of armies either filled with traitors, or frightened by an
enemy in the rear, that which is full of traitors may be taken to fight
apart under the leadership of a trusted commander, but not the
army which is afraid of an attack from the rear.

Of armies without communication or without leaders, that
which has lost its communication with the base of operations may
be taken to fight after restoring the communication and placing it
under the protection of citizens and country people, but not the
army which is without a leader such as the king or any other
persons.

Of troops which have lost their leader or which are not
trained, those that have lost their leader may be taken to fight under
the leadership of a different person but not the troops which are not
trained.

* Removal of vices and troubles, recruitment (of new men),
keeping away from places of an enemy's ambush, and harmony
among the officers of the army, are the means of protecting the
army from troubles.

* He (the king) should ever carefully guard his army from the

464
Kautilya's Arthashastra

troubles caused by an enemy, and should ever be ready to strike his
enemy's army when the latter is under troubles;

* Whatever he may come to know as the source of trouble to his
people, he should quickly and carefully apply antidotes against that
cause.

* A friend who, by himself, or in combination with others or under
the influence of another king, has marched against his own ally, a
friend who is abandoned owing to inability to retain his friendship,
or owing to greediness or indifference;

* A friend who is bought by another and who has withdrawn
himself from fighting;

* A friend who, following the policy of making peace with one
and marching against another, has contracted friendship with one,
who is going to march either singly or in combination with others
against an ally;

* A friend who is not relieved from his troubles owing to fear,
contempt, or indifference; a friend who is surrounded in his own
place or who has run away owing to fear;

* A friend who is displeased owing to his having to pay much, or
owing to his not having received his due or owing to his
dissatisfaction even after the receipt of his due;

* A friend who has voluntarily paid much or who is made by
another to pay much (to his ally); a friend who is kept under
pressure, or who, having broken the bond of friendship, sought
friendship with another;

* A friend who is neglected owing to inability to retain his
friendship; and a friend who has become an enemy in spite of his
ally's entreaties to the contrary;--such friends are hardly acquired;
and if acquired at all, they turn away.

*A friend who has realised the responsibilities of friendship, or
who is honourable; or whose disappointment is due to want of
information, or who, though excited, is unequal (to the task), or
who is made to turn back owing to fear from another;

* Or who is frightened at the destruction of another friend, or who

465
Kautilya's Arthashastra

is apprehensive of danger from the combination of enemies, or
who is made by traitors to give up his friendship,--it is possible to
acquire such a friend; and if acquired, he keeps up his friendship.
* Henceone should not give rise to those causes which are
destructive of friendship; and when they arise, one should get rid of
them by adopting such friendly attitude as can remove those
causes.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "The Group of Troubles of the Army, and
the Group of Troubles of a Friend,” in Book VIII "Concerning
Vices and Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
hundred and twenty-first chapter from the beginning. With this
ends the eighth Book "Concerning Vices and Calamities” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 391-409.

466
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book VIII: Concerning Vices and
Calamities

CHAPTER I. THE AGGREGATE OF THE CALAMITIES
OF THE ELEMENTS OF SOVEREIGNTY.

WHEN calamities happen together, the form of consideration
should be whether it is easier to take an offensive or defensive
attitude. National calamities, coming from Providence or from man
happen from one's misfortune or bad policy. The word vyasana
(vices or calamities), means the reverse or absence of virtue, the
preponderance of vices, and occasional troubles. That which
deprives (vyasyati) a person of his happiness is termed vyasana
(vices or calamities).

My teacher says that of the calamities, viz., the king in
distress, the minister in distress, the people in distress, distress due
to bad fortifications, financial distress, the army in distress, and an
ally in distress,--that which is first mentioned is more serious than
the one, coming later in the order of enumeration.

No, says Bhdradvdja, of the distress of the king and of his
minister, ministerial distress is more serious; deliberations in
council, the attainment of results as anticipated while deliberating
in council, the accomplishment of works, the business of
revenue-collection and its expenditure, recruiting the army, the
driving out of the enemy and of wild tribes, the protection of the
kingdom, taking remedial measures against calamities, the
protection of the heir-apparent, and the installation of princes
constitute the duties of ministers. In the absence of ministers; the
above works are ill-done; and like a bird, deprived of its feathers,

467
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the king loses his active capacity. In such calamities, the intrigues
of the enemy find a ready scope. In ministerial distress, the king's
life itself comes into danger, for a minister is the mainstay of the
security of the king's life.

No, says Kautilya, it is verily the king who attends to the
business of appointing ministers, priests, and other servants,
including the superintendents of several departments, the
application of remedies against the troubles of his people, and of
his kingdom, and the adoption of progressive measures; when his
ministers fall into troubles, he employs others; he is ever ready to
bestow rewards on the worthy and inflict punishments on the
wicked; when the king is well off, by his welfare and prosperity, he
pleases the people; of what kind the king's character is, of the same
kind will be the character of his people; for their progress or
downfall, the people depend upon the king; the king is, as it were,
the aggregate of the people.

Visdldksha says that of the troubles of the minister and of the
people; the troubles of the people are more serious; finance, army,
raw products, free labour, carriage of things, and collection (of
necessaries) are all secured from the people. There will be no such
things in the absence of people, next to the king and his minister.

No, says Kautilya, all activities proceed from the minister,
activities such as the successful accomplishment of the works of
the people, security of person and property from internal and
external enemies, remedial measures against calamities,
colonization and improvement of wild tracts of land, recruiting the
army, collection of revenue, and bestowal of favour.

The school of Pardsara say that of the distress of the people
and distress due to bad fortifications, the latter is a more serious
evil; for it is in fortified towns that the treasury and the army are

468
Kautilya's Arthashastra

secured; they (fortified towns) are a secure place for the people;
they are a stronger power than the citizens or country people; and
they are a powerful defensive instrument in times of danger for the
king. As to the people, they are common both to the king and his
enemy.

No, says Kautilya, for forts, finance, and the army depend
upon the people; likewise buildings, trade, agriculture,
cattle-rearing, bravery, stability, power, and abundance (of things).
In countries inhabited by people, there are mountains and islands
(as natural forts); in the absence of an expansive country, forts are
resorted to. When a country consists purely of cultivators, troubles
due to the absence of fortifications (are apparent); while in a
country which consists purely of warlike people, troubles that may
appear are due to the absence of (an expansive and cultivated)
territory.

Pisuna says that of the troubles due to the absence of forts and
to want of finance, troubles due to want of finance are more
serious; the repair of fortifications and their maintenance depend
upon finance; by means of wealth, intrigue to capture an enemy's
fort may be carried on; by means of wealth, the people, friends, and
enemies can be kept under control; by means of it, outsiders can be
encouraged and the establishment of the army and its operations
conducted. It is possible to remove the treasure in times of danger,
but not the fort.

No, says Kautilya, for it is in the fort that the treasury and the
army are safely kept, and it is from the fort that secret war
(intrigue), control over one's partisans, the upkeep of the army, the
reception of allies and the driving out of enemies and of wild tribes
are successfully practised. In the absence of forts, the treasury is to
the enemy, for it seems that for those who own forts, there is no
destruction.

469
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Kaunapadanta says that of distress due to want of finance or
to an inefficient army, that which is due to the want of an efficient
army is more serious; for control over one's own friends and
enemies, the winning over the army of an enemy, and the business
of administration are all dependent upon the army. In the absence
of the army, it is certain that the treasury will be lost, whereas lack
of finance can be made up by procuring raw products and lands or
by seizing an enemy's territory.

The army may go to the enemy, or murder the king himself,
and bring about all kinds of troubles. But finance is the chief means
of observing virtuous acts and of enjoying desires. Owing to a
change in place, time, and policy, either finance or the army may
be a superior power; for the army is (sometimes) the means of
securing the wealth acquired; but wealth is (always) the means of
securing both the treasury and the army. Since all activities are
dependent upon finance, financial troubles are more serious.

Vitavyddhi says that of the distress of the army and of an ally,
the distress of an ally is more serious--an ally, though he is not fed
and is far off, is still serviceable; he drives off not only the
rear-enemy and the friends of the rear-enemy, but also the frontal
enemy and wild tribes; he also helps his friend with money, army,
and lands on occasions of troubles.

No, says Kautilya, the ally of him who has a powerful army
keeps the alliance; and even the enemy assumes a friendly attitude;
when there is a work that can be equally accomplished either by the
army or by an ally, then preference to the army or to the ally should
depend on the advantages of securing the appropriate place and
time for war and the expected profit. In times of sudden expedition
and on occasions of troubles from an enemy, a wild tribe, or local
rebels, no friend can be trusted. When calamities happen together,
or when an enemy has grown strong, a friend keeps up his

470
Kautilya's Arthashastra

friendship as long as money is forthcoming. Thus the
determination of the comparative seriousness of the calamities of
the various elements of sovereignty.

* When a part of one of the elements of sovereignty is under
troubles, the extent, affection, and strength of the serviceable part
can be the means of accomplishing a work.

* When any two elements of sovereignty are equally under
troubles, they should be distinguished in respect of their
progressive or declining tendency, provided that the good
condition of the rest of the elements needs no description.

* When the calamities of a single element tend to destroy the
rest of the elements, those calamities, whether they be of the
fundamental or any other element, are verily serious.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “The Aggregate of the Calamities of the
Elements of Sovereignty,” in Book VIII, “Concerning Vices and
Calamities” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
seventeenth chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT THE
TROUBLES OF THE KING AND OF HIS KINGDOM.

THE king and his kingdom are the primary elements of the
state.

The troubles of the king may be either internal or external.
Internal troubles are more serious than external troubles which are
like the danger arising from a lurking snake. Troubles due to a
minister are more serious than other kinds of internal troubles.
Hence, the king should keep under his own control the powers of
finance and the army.

471
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of divided rule and foreign rule, divided rule or rule of a
country by two kings, perishes owing to mutual hatred, partiality
and rivalry. Foreign rule which comes into existence by seizing the
country from its king still alive, thinks that the country is not its
own, impoverishes it, and carries off its wealth, or treats it as a
commercial article; and when the country ceases to love it, it retires
abandoning the country.

Which is better, a blind king, or a king erring against the
science?

My teacher says that a blind king, i.e., a king who is not
possessed of an eye in sciences, is indiscriminate in doing works,
very obstinate, and is led by others; such a king destroys the
kingdom by his own maladministration. But an erring king can be
easily brought round when and where his mind goes astray from
the procedure laid down in sciences.

No, says Kautilya, a blind king can be made by his supporters
to adhere to whatever line of policy he ought to. But an erring king
who is bent upon doing what is against the science, brings about
destruction to himself and his kingdom by maladministration.

Which is better, a diseased or a new king ?

My teacher says that a diseased king loses his kingdom owing
to the intrigue of his ministers, or loses his life on account of the
kingdom; but a new king pleases the people by such popular deeds
as the observance of his own duties and the act of bestowing
favours, remissions (of taxes), gifts, and presents upon others.

No, says Kautilya, a diseased king continues to observe his
duties as usual. But a new king begins to act as he pleases under the
impression that the country, acquired by his own might, belongs to

472
Kautilya's Arthashastra

himself; when pressed by combined kings (for plunder), he
tolerates their oppression of the country. Or having no firm control
over the elements of the state, he is easily removed. There is this
difference among diseased kings: a king who is morally diseased,
and a king who is suffering from physical disease; there is also this
difference among new kings: a high-born king and a base-born
king.

Which is better, a weak but high-born king, or a strong but
low-born king?

My teacher says that a people, even if interested in having a
weak king, hardly allow room for the intrigues of a weak but
high-born person to be their king; but that if they desire power,
they will easily yield themselves to the intrigues of a strong but
base-born person to be their king.

No, says Kautilya, a people will naturally obey a high-born
king though he is weak, for the tendency of a prosperous people is
to follow a high-born king. Also they render the intrigues of a
strong but base-born person, unavailing, as the saying is, that
possession of virtues makes for friendship.

The destruction of crops is worse than the destruction of
handfuls (of grains), since it is the labour that is destroyed thereby;
absence of rain is worse than too much rain.

* The comparative seriousness or insignificance of any two
kinds of troubles affecting the elements of sovereignty, in the order
of enumeration of the several kinds of distress, is the cause of
adopting offensive or defensive operations.

[Thus ends Chapter 11, "Considerations about the Troubles of the
King and of his Kingdom,” in Book VIII, “Concerning Vices and

473
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and eighteenth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER III. THE AGGREGATE OF THE TROUBLE
OF MEN.

IGNORANCE and absence of discipline are the causes of a
man's troubles. An untrained man does not perceive the injuries
arising from vices. We are going to treat of them (vices):--

Vice's due to anger form a triad; and those due to desire are
fourfold. Of these two, anger is worse, for anger proceeds against
all. In a majority of cases, kings given to anger are said to have
fallen a prey to popular fury. But kings addicted to pleasures have
perished in consequence of serious diseases brought about by
deterioration and improverishment.

No, says Bhdradvdja, anger is the characteristic of a righteous
man. It is the foundation of bravery; it puts an end to despicable
(persons); and it keeps the people under fear. Anger is always a
necessary quality for the prevention of sin. But desire
(accompanies) the enjoyment of results, reconciliation, generosity,
and the act of endearing oneself to all. Possession of desire is
always necessary for him who is inclined to enjoy the fruits of what
he has accomplished.

No, says Kautilya, anger brings about enmity with, and
troubles from, an enemy, and is always associated with pain.
Addiction to pleasure (kdma) occasions contempt and loss of
wealth, and throws the addicted person into the company of
thieves, gamblers, hunters, singers, players on musical
instruments, and other undesirable persons. Of these, enmity is
more serious than contempt, for a despised person is caught hold of
by his own people and by his enemies, whereas a hated person is

474
Kautilya's Arthashastra

destroyed. Troubles from an enemy are more serious than loss of
wealth, for loss of wealth causes financial troubles, whereas
troubles from an enemy are injurious to life. Suffering on account
of vices is more serious than keeping company with undesirable
persons, for the company of undesirable persons can be got rid of
in a moment, whereas suffering from vices causes injury for a long
time. Hence, anger is a more serious evil.

Which is worse: abuse of language, or of money, or
oppressive punishment?

Visdldksha says that of abuse of language and of money,
abuse of language is worse; for when harshly spoken to, a brave
man retaliates; and bad language, like a nail piercing the heart,
excites anger and gives pain to the senses.

No, says Kautilya, gift of money palliates the fury occasioned
by abusive language, whereas abuse of money causes the loss of
livelihood itself. Abuse of money means gifts, exaction, loss or
abandonment of money.

The School of Pardsara say that of abuse of money and
oppressive punishment, abuse of money is worse; for good deeds
and enjoyments depend upon wealth; the world itself is bound by
wealth. Hence, its abuse is a more serious evil.

No, says Kautilya, in preference to a large amount of wealth,
no man desires the loss of his own life. Owing to oppressive
punishment, one is liable to the same punishment at the hands of

one's enemies.

Such is the nature of the triad of evils due to anger.

475
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The fourfold vices due to desire are hunting, gambling,
women and drinking.

Pisuna says that of hunting and gambling, hunting is a worse
vice; for falling into the hand of robbers, enemies and elephants,
getting into wild fire, fear, inability to distinguish between the
cardinal points, hunger, thirst and loss of life are evils consequent
upon hunting, whereas in gambling, the expert gambler wins a
victory like Jayatsena and Duryodhana.

No, says Kautilya, of the two parties, one has to suffer from
defeat, as is well known from the history of Nala and Yudhishthira;
the same wealth that is won like a piece of flesh in gambling,
causes enmity. Lack of recognition of wealth properly acquired,
acquisition of ill-gotten wealth, loss of wealth without enjoyment,
staying away from answering the calls of nature, and contracting
diseases from not taking timely meals, are the evils of gambling,
whereas in hunting, exercise, the disappearance of phlegm, bile,
fat, and sweat, the acquisition of skill in aiming at stationary and
moving bodies, the ascertainment of the appearance of beasts when
provoked, and occasional march (are its good characteristics).

Kaunapadanta says that of addiction to gambling and to
women, gambling is a more serious evil; for gamblers always play,
even at night by lamp light, and even when the mother (of one of
the players) is dead; the gambler exhibits anger when spoken to in
times of trouble; whereas in the case of addiction to women, it is
possible to hold conversation about virtue and wealth, at the time
of bathing, dressing and eating. Also it is possible to make, by
means of secret punishment, a woman to be so good as to secure
the welfare of the king, or to get rid of her, or drive her out, under
the plea of disease.

476
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to divert the attention from
gambling, but not so from women. (The evils of the latter are)
failure to see (what ought to be seen), violation of duty, the evil of
postponing works that are to be immediately done, incapacity to
deal with politics, and contracting the evil of drinking.

Vitavyddhi says that of addiction to women and to drinking,
addiction to women is a more serious evil: there are various kinds
of childishness among women, as explained in the chapter on “The
Harem,” whereas in drinking, the enjoyment of sound and other
objects of the senses, pleasing other people, honouring the
followers, and relaxation from the fatigue of work (are the
advantages).

No, says Kautilya, in the case of addiction to women, the
consequences are the birth of children, self-protection, change of
wives in the harem, and absence of such consequences in the case
of unworthy outside women. Both the above consequences follow
from drinking. The auspicious effects of drinking are loss of
money, lunacy in a sensate man, corpselike appearance while
living, nakedness, the loss of the knowledge of the Vedas, loss of
life, wealth, and friends, disassociation with the good, suffering
from pain, and indulgence in playing on musical instruments and in
singing at the expense of wealth.

Of gambling and drinking, gambling causes gain or loss of
the stakes to one party or other. Even among dumb animals, it splits
them into factions and causes provocation. It is specially due to
gambling that assemblies and royal confederacies possessing the
characteristics of assemblies are split into factions, and are
consequently destroyed. The reception of what is condemned is the
worst of all evils since it causes incapacity to deal with politics.

477
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* The reception of what is condemned is (due to) desire; and
anger consists in oppressing the good; since both these are
productive of many evils, both of them are held to be the worst
evils.

* Hence be who is possessed of discretion should associate
with the aged, and, after controlling his passions, abandon both
anger and desire which are productive of other evils and
destructive of the very basis (of life).

[Thus ends Chapter III, "The Aggregate of the Troubles of Men,"
in Book VIII. "Concerning Vices and Calamities” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and nineteenth chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER 1V. THE GROUP OF MOLESTATIONS, THE
GROUP OF OBSTRUCTIONS, AND THE GROUP OF
FINANCIAL TROUBLES.

PROVIDENTIAL calamities are fire, floods, pestilence,
famine, and (the epidemic disease called) maraka.

My teacher says that of fire and floods, destruction due to fire
is irremediable; all kinds of troubles, except those due to fire, can
be alleviated, and troubles due to floods can be passed over.

No, says Kautilya, fire destroys a village, or part of a village
whereas floods carry off hundreds of villages.

My teacher says that of pestilence and famine, pestilence
brings all kinds of business to a stop by causing obstruction to work
on account of disease and death among men and owing to the flight
of servants, whereas famine stops no work, but is productive of
gold, cattle and taxes.

478
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, pestilence devastates only a part (of the
country) and can be remedied, whereas famine causes troubles to
the whole (of the country) and occasions dearth of livelihood to all
creatures.

This explains the consequences of maraka.

My teacher says that of the loss of chief and vulgar men, the
loss of vulgar men causes obstruction to work.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to recruit vulgar men, since
they form the majority of people; for the sake of vulgar men,
nobles should not be allowed to perish; one in a thousand may or
may not be a noble man; he it is who is possessed of excessive
courage and wisdom and is the refuge of vulgar people.

My teacher says that of the troubles arising from one's own or
one’s enemy's Circle of States, those due to one's own Circle are
doubly injurious and are irremediable, whereas an inimical Circle
of States can be fought out or kept away by the intervention of an
ally or by making peace.

No, says Kautilya, troubles due to one's own Circle can be got
rid of by arresting or destroying the leaders among the subjective
people; or they may be injurious to a part of the country, whereas
troubles due to an enemy's Circle of States cause oppression by
inflicting loss and destruction and by burning, devastation, and
plunder.

My teacher says that of the quarrels among the people and
among kings, quarrel among the people brings about disunion and
thereby enables an enemy to invade the country, whereas quarrel
among kings is productive of double pay and wages and of
remission of taxes to the people.

479
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to end the quarrel among the
people by arresting the leaders, or by removing the cause of
quarrel; and people quarrelling among themselves vie with each
other and thereby help the country, whereas quarrel among kings
causes trouble and destruction to the people and requires double
the energy for its settlement.

My teacher says that of a sportive king and a sportive country,
a sportive country is always ruinous to the results of work, whereas
a sportive king is beneficial to artisans, carpenters, musicians,
buffoons and traders.

No, says Kautilya, a sportive country, taking to sports for
relaxation from labour, causes only a trifling loss; and after
enjoyment, it resumes work, whereas a sportive king causes
oppression by showing indulgence to his courtiers, by seizing and
begging, and by obstructing work in the manufactories.

My teacher says that of a favourite wife and a prince, the
prince causes oppression by showing indulgence to his followers,
by seizing and begging, and by obstructing the work in
manufactories whereas the favourite wife is addicted to her
amorous Sports.

No, says Kautilya, it is possible to prevent through the
minister and the priest, the oppression caused by the prince, but not
the oppression caused by the favourite wife, since she is usually
stubborn and keeps company with wicked persons.

My teacher says that of the troubles due to a corporation of
people and to a leader (a chief), the corporation of people people
cannot be put down since it consists of a number of men and causes
oppression by theft and violence, whereas a leader causes troubles
by obstruction to, and destruction of, work.

480
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, it is very easy to get rid of (the troubles
from) a corporation; since it has to rise or fall with the king; or it
can be put down by arresting its leader or a part of the corporation
itself, whereas a leader backed up with support causes oppression
by injuring the life and property of others.

My teacher says that of the chamberlain and the collector of
revenue, the chamberlain causes oppression by spoiling works and
by inflicting fines, whereas the collector of revenue makes use of
the ascertained revenue in the department over which he presides.

No, says Kautilya, the chamberlain takes to himself what is
presented by others to be entered into the treasury whereas the
collector makes his own revenue first and then the kings’; or he
destroys the kings’ revenue and proceeds as he pleases to seize the
property of others.

My teacher says that of the superintendent of the boundary
and a trader, the superintendent of the boundary destroys traffic by
allowing thieves and taking taxes more than he ought to, whereas a
trader renders the country prosperous by a favourable barter of
commercial articles.

No, says Kautilya, the superintendent of the boundary
increases commercial traffic by welcoming the arrival of
merchandise, whereas traders unite in causing rise and fall in the
value of articles, and live by making profits cent per cent in panas
or kumbhas (measures of grain).

Which is more desirable, land occupied by a high-born
person or land reserved for grazing a flock of cattle?

My teacher says that the land occupied by a high-born person
is very productive; and it supplies men to the army; hence it does

481
Kautilya's Arthashastra

not deserve to be confiscated lest the owner might cause troubles,
whereas the land occupied for grazing a flock of cattle is cultivable
and deserves therefore to be freed, for cultivable land is preferred
to pasture land.

No, says Kautilya, though immensely useful, the land
occupied by a high-born person deserves to be freed, lest he might
cause troubles (otherwise), whereas the land held for grazing a
flock of cattle is productive of money and beasts, and does not
therefore deserve to be confiscated unless cultivation of crops is
impeded thereby.

My teacher says that of robbers and wild tribes, robbers are
ever bent on carrying off women at night, make assaults on
persons, and take away hundreds and thousands of panas, whereas
wild tribes, living under a leader and moving in the neighbouring
forests can be seen here and there causing destruction only to a
part.

No, says Kautilya, robbers carry off the property of the
careless and can be put down as they are easily recognized and
caught hold of, whereas wild tribes have their own strongholds,
being numerous and brave, ready to fight in broad daylight, and
seizing and destroying countries like kings.

Of the forests of beasts and of elephants, beasts are numerous
and productive of plenty of flesh and skins; they arrest the growth
of the grass and are easily controlled, whereas elephants are of the
reverse nature and are seen to be destructive of countries even
when they are captured and tamed.

Of benefits derived from one's own or a foreign country,
benefits derived from one's own country consists of grains, cattle,
gold, and raw products and are useful for the maintenance of the

482
Kautilya's Arthashastra

people in calamities, whereas benefits derived from a foreign
country are of the reverse nature.

Such is the group of molestations.

Obstruction to movements caused by a chief is internal
obstruction; and obstruction to movements caused by an enemy or
a wild tribe is external obstruction.

Such is the group of obstructions.

Financial troubles due to the two kinds of obstruction and to
the molestations described above are stagnation of financial
position, loss of wealth due to the allowance of remission of taxes
in favour of leaders, scattered revenue, false account of revenue
collected, and revenue left in the custody of a neighbouring king or
of a wild tribe.

Thus the group of financial troubles.

* In the interests of the prosperity of the country, one should
attempt to avoid the cause of troubles, remedy them when they
happen, and avert obstructions and financial troubles.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "The Group of Molestations, the Group of
Obstructions, and the Group of Financial Troubles" in Book VIII,
"Concerning Vices and Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and twentieth chapter from the
beginning. ]

483
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER V. THE GROUP OF TROUBLES OF THE
ARMY, AND THE GROUP OF TROUBLES OF A FRIEND.

The troubles of the army are--That which is disrespected; that
which is mortified; that which is not paid for; that which is
diseased; that which has freshly arrived; that which has made a
long journey; that which is tired; that which has sustained loss; that
which has been repelled; that of which the front portion is
destroyed; that which is suffering from inclemency of weather; that
which has found itself in an unsuitable ground; that which is
displeased from disappointment; that which has run away; that of
which the men are fond of their wives; that which contains traitors;
that of which the prime portion is provoked; that which has
dissensions; that which has come from a foreign state; that which
has served in many states; that which is specially trained to a
particular kind of manceuvre and encampment; that which is
trained to a particular movement in a particular place; that which is
obstructed; that which is surrounded; that which has its supply of
grains cut off; that which has its men and stores cut off; that which
is kept in one's own country; that which is under the protection of
an ally; that which contains inimical persons; that which is afraid
of an enemy in the rear; that which has lost its communication; that
which has lost its commander; that which has lost its leader; and
that which is blind (i.e., untrained).

Of the disrespected and the mortified among these, that
which is disrespected may be taken to fight after being honoured,
but not that which is suffering from its own mortification.

Of unpaid and diseased armies, the unpaid may be taken to

fight after making full payment but not the diseased, which is unfit
for work.

484
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of freshly arrived and long-travelled armies, that which has
freshly arrived may be taken to fight after it has taken its position
without mingling with any other new army, but not that which is
tired from its long journey.

Of tired and reduced armies, the army that is tired may be
taken to fight after it has refreshed itself from bathing, eating, and
sleeping, but not the reduced army, i.e., the army, the leaders of
which have been killed.

Of armies which have either been repelled or have their front
destroyed, that which has been repelled may be taken to fight
together with fresh men attached to it, but not the army which has
lost many of its brave men in its frontal attack.

Of armies, either suffering from inclemency of weather or
driven to an unsuitable ground, that which is suffering from
inclemency of weather may be taken to fight after providing it with
weapons and dress appropriate for the season, but not the army on
an unfavourable ground obstructing its movements.

Of disappointed and renegade armies, that which is
disappointed may be taken to fight after satisfying it but not the
army which has (once) run away.

Of soldiers who are either fond of their wives or are under an
enemy, those who are fond of their wives may be taken to fight
after separating them from their wives; but not those who are under
an enemy, and are, therefore, like internal enemies.

Of provoked and disunited armies, that, of which a part is
provoked, may be taken to fight after pacifying it by conciliation
and other strategic means but not the disunited army, the members
of which are estranged from each other.

485
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of armies which have left service either in one state or in
many states, that whose resignation of service in a foreign state is
not due to instigation or conspiracy may be taken to fight under the
leadership of spies and friends, but not the army which has
resigned its service in many states and is, therefore, dangerous.

Of armies which are trained either to a particular kind of
manceuvre and encampment or to a particular movement in a
particular place, that which is taught a special kind of manceuvre
and encampment may be taken to fight, but not the army whose
way of making encampments and marches is only suited for a
particular place.

Of obstructed and surrounded armies, that which is prevented
from its movements in one direction may be taken to fight against
the obstructor in another direction, but not the army whose
movements are obstructed on all sides.

Of troops whose supply of grain is cut off or whose supply of
men and stores is cut off, that which has lost its supply of grain may
be taken to fight after providing it with grain brought from another
quarter or after supplying to it moveable and immoveable
food-stuffs (animal and vegetable food-stuffs) but not the army to
which men and provisions cannot be supplied.

Of armies kept in one's own country or under the protection
of an ally, that which is kept in one's own country can possibly be
disbanded in time of danger, but not the army under the protection
of an ally, as it is far removed in place and time.

Of armies either filled with traitors, or frightened by an
enemy in the rear, that which is full of traitors may be taken to fight
apart under the leadership of a trusted commander, but not the
army which is afraid of an attack from the rear.

486
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Of armies without communication or without leaders, that
which has lost its communication with the base of operations may
be taken to fight after restoring the communication and placing it
under the protection of citizens and country people, but not the
army which is without a leader such as the king or any other
persons.

Of troops which have lost their leader or which are not
trained, those that have lost their leader may be taken to fight under
the leadership of a different person but not the troops which are not
trained.

* Removal of vices and troubles, recruitment (of new men),
keeping away from places of an enemy's ambush, and harmony
among the officers of the army, are the means of protecting the
army from troubles.

* He (the king) should ever carefully guard his army from the
troubles caused by an enemy, and should ever be ready to strike his
enemy's army when the latter is under troubles;

* Whatever he may come to know as the source of trouble to
his people, he should quickly and carefully apply antidotes against
that cause.

* A friend who, by himself, or in combination with others or
under the influence of another king, has marched against his own
ally, a friend who is abandoned owing to inability to retain his
friendship, or owing to greediness or indifference;

* A friend who is bought by another and who has withdrawn
himself from fighting;

487
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* A friend who, following the policy of making peace with
one and marching against another, has contracted friendship with
one, who is going to march either singly or in combination with
others against an ally;

* A friend who is not relieved from his troubles owing to
fear, contempt, or indifference; a friend who is surrounded in his
own place or who has run away owing to fear;

* A friend who is displeased owing to his having to pay
much, or owing to his not having received his due or owing to his
dissatisfaction even after the receipt of his due;

* A friend who has voluntarily paid much or who is made by
another to pay much (to his ally); a friend who is kept under
pressure, or who, having broken the bond of friendship, sought
friendship with another;

* A friend who is neglected owing to inability to retain his
friendship; and a friend who has become an enemy in spite of his
ally's entreaties to the contrary;--such friends are hardly acquired;
and if acquired at all, they turn away.

*A friend who has realised the responsibilities of friendship,
or who is honourable; or whose disappointment is due to want of
information, or who, though excited, is unequal (to the task), or
who is made to turn back owing to fear from another;

* Or who is frightened at the destruction of another friend, or
who is apprehensive of danger from the combination of enemies,
or who is made by traitors to give up his friendship,--it is possible
to acquire such a friend; and if acquired, he keeps up his friendship.

488
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* Hence one should not give rise to those causes which are
destructive of friendship; and when they arise, one should get rid of
them by adopting such friendly attitude as can remove those
causes.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "The Group of Troubles of the Army, and
the Group of Troubles of a Friend,” in Book VIII "Concerning
Vices and Calamities,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
hundred and twenty-first chapter from the beginning. With this
ends the eighth Book "Concerning Vices and Calamities” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

489
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book IX, "The Work of an Invader”

CHAPTER I. THE KNOWLEDGE OF POWER, PLACE,
TIME, STRENGTH, AND WEAKNESS; THE TIME OF
INVASION.

THE conqueror should know the comparative strength and
weakness of himself and of his enemy; and having ascertained the
power, place, time, the time of marching and of recruiting the
army, the consequences, the loss of men and money, and profits
and danger, he should march with his full force; otherwise, he
should keep quiet.

My teacher says that of enthusiasm and power, enthusiasm is
better: a king, himself energetic, brave, strong, free from disease,
skilful in wielding weapons, is able with his army as a secondary
power to subdue a powerful king; his army, though small, will,
when led by him, be, capable of turning out any work. But a king
who has no enthusiasm in himself, will perish though possessed of
a strong army.

No, says Kautilya, he who is possessed of power overreaches,
by the sheer force of his power, another who is merely enthusiastic.
Having acquired, captured, or bought another enthusiastic king as
well as brave soldiers, he can make his enthusiastic army of horses,
elephants, chariots, and others to move anywhere without
obstruction. Powerful kings, whether women, young men, lame or
blind, conquered the earth by winning over or purchasing the aid of
enthusiastic persons.

My teacher says that of power (money and army) and skill in
intrigue, power is better; for a king, though possessed of skill for

490
Kautilya's Arthashastra

intrigue (mantrasakti) becomes a man of barren mind if he has no
power; for the work of intrigue is well defined. He who has no
power loses his kingdom as sprouts of seeds in drought vomit their
sap.

No, says Kautilya, skill for intrigue is better; he who has the
eye of knowledge and is acquainted with the science of polity can
with little effort make use of his skill for intrigue and can succeed
by means of conciliation and other strategic means and by spies
and chemical appliances in over-reaching even those kings who are
possessed of enthusiasm and power. Thus of the three
acquirements, viz., enthusiasm, power and skill for intrigue, he
who posesses more of the quality mentioned later than the one
mentioned first in the order of enumeration will be successful in
over- reaching others.

Country (space) means the earth; in it the thousand yojanas of
the northern portion of the country that stretches between the
Himalayas and the ocean form the dominion of no insignificant
emperor; in it there are such varieties of land, as forests, villages,
waterfalls, level plains, and uneven grounds. In such lands, he
should undertake such works as he considers to be conducive to his
power and prosperity. That part of the country, in which his army
finds a convenient place for its manceuvre and which proves
unfavourable to his enemy, is the best; that part of the country
which is of the reverse nature, is the worst; and that which partakes
of both the characteristics, is a country of middling quality.

Time consists of cold, hot, and rainy periods. The divisions of
time are: the night, the day, the fortnight, the month, the season,
solstices, the year, and the Yuga (cycle of five years). In these
divisions of time he should undertake such works as are conducive
to the growth of his power and prosperity. That time which is
congenial for the manceuvre of his Army, but which is of the

491
Kautilya's Arthashastra

reverse nature for his enemy is the best; that which is of the reverse
nature is the worst; and that which possesses both the
characteristics is of middling quality.

My teacher says that of strength, place, and time, strength is
the best; for a man who is possessed of strength can overcome the
difficulties due either to the unevenness of the ground or to the
cold, hot, or rainy periods of time. Some say that place is the best
for the reason that a dog, seated in a convenient place, can drag a
crocodile and that a crocodile in low ground can drag a dog.

Others say that time is the best for the reason that during the
day-time the crow kills the owl, and that at night the owl] the crow.

No, says Kautilya, of strength, place, and time, each is helpful
to the other; whoever is possessed of these three things should,
after having placed one-third or one fourth of his army to protect
his base of operations against his rear-enemy and wild tribes in his
vicinity and after having taken with him as much army and treasure
as is sufficient to accomplish his work, march during the month of
Mdrgdsirsha (December) against his enemy whose collection of
food-stuffs is old and insipid and who has not only not gathered
fresh food-stuffs, but also not repaired his fortifications, in order to
destroy the enemy's rainy crops and autumnal handfuls (mushti).
He should march during the month of Chaitra (March), if he means
to destroy the enemy's autumnal crops and vernal handfuls. He
should march during the month of Jyestha (May-June) against one
whose storage of fodder, firewood and water has diminished and
who has not repaired his fortifications, if he means to destroy the
enemy's vernal crops and handfuls of the rainy season. Or he may
march during the dewy season against a country which is of hot
climate and in which fodder and water are obtained in little
quantities. Or he may march during the summer against a country
in which the sun is enshrouded by mist and which is full of deep

492
Kautilya's Arthashastra

valleys and thickets of trees and grass, or he may march during the
rains against a country which is suitable for the manoeuvre of his
own army and which is of the reverse nature for his enemy's army.
He has to undertake a long march between the months of
Mdrgasirsha (December) and Taisha (January), a march of mean
length between March and April, and a short march between May
and June; and one, afflicted with troubles, should keep quiet.
Marching against an enemy under troubles has been
explained in connection with "March after declaring war."

My teacher says that one should almost invariably march
against an enemy in troubles.

But Kautilya says: that when one's resources are sufficient
one should march, since the troubles of an enemy cannot be
properly recognised; or whenever one finds it possible to reduce or
destroy an enemy by marching against him, then one may
undertake a march.

When the weather is free from heat, one should march with an
army mostly composed of elephants. Elephants with profuse sweat
in hot weather are attacked by leprosy; and when they have no
water for bathing and drinking, they lose their quickness and
become obstinate. Hence, against a country containing plenty of
water and during the rainy season, one should march with an army
mostly composed of elephants. Against a country of the reverse
description, i.e., which as little rain and muddy water, one should
march with an army mostly composed of asses, camels, and horses.

Against a desert, one should march during the rainy season
with all the four constituents of the army (elephants, horses,
chariots, and men). One should prepare a programme of short and
long distances to be marched in accordance with the nature of the
ground to be traversed, viz., even ground, uneven ground, valleys

493
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and plains.

When the work to be accomplished is small, march against all
kinds of enemies should be of short duration; and when it is great, it
should also be of long duration; during the rains, encampment
should be made abroad.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “The Knowledge of Power, Place, Time,
Strength and Weakness, the Time of Invasion,” in Book IX, “The
Work of an Invader,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the
hundred and twenty-second chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. THE TIME OF RECRUITING THE ARMY;
THE FORM OF EQUIPMENT; AND THE WORK OF
ARRAYING A RIVAL FORCE.

THE time of recruiting troops, such as hereditary troops
(maula), hired troops, corporation of soldiers (sreni), troops
belonging to a friend or to an enemy, and wild tribes.

When he (a king) thinks that his hereditary army is more than
he requires for the defence of his own possessions or when he
thinks that as his hereditary army consists of more men than he
requires, some of them may be disaffected; or when he thinks that
his enemy has a strong hereditary army famous for its attachment,
and is, therefore, to be fought out with much skill on his part; or
when he thinks that though the roads are good and the weather
favourable, it is still the hereditary army that can endure wear and
tear; or when he thinks that though they are famous for their
attachment, hired soldiers and other kinds of troops cannot be
relied upon lest they might lend their ears to the intrigues of the

494
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enemy to be invaded; or when he thinks that other kinds of force
are wanting in strength, then is the time for taking the hereditary
army.

When he thinks that the army he has hired is greater than his
hereditary army; that his enemy's hereditary army is small and
disaffected, while the army his enemy has hired is insignificant and
weak; that actual fight is less than treacherous fight; that the place
to be traversed and the time required do not entail much loss; that
his own army is little given to stupor, is beyond the fear of intrigue,
and is reliable; or that little is the enemy's power which he has to
put down, then is the time for leading the hired army.

When he thinks that the immense corporation of soldiers he
possesses can be trusted both to defend his country and to march
against his enemy; that he has to be absent only for a short time; or
that his enemy's army consists mostly of soldiers of corporations,
and consequently the enemy is desirous of carrying on treacherous
fight rather than an actual war, then is the time for the enlistment of
corporations of soldiers (sreni).

When he thinks that the strong help he has in his friend can be
made use of both in his own country and in his marches; that he has
to be absent only for a short time, and actual fight is more than
treacherous fight; that having made his friend's army to occupy
wild tracts, cities, or plains and to fight with the enemy's ally, he,
himself, would lead his own army to fight with the enemy's army;
that his work can be accomplished by his friend as well; that his
success depends on his friend; that he has a friend near and
deserving of obligation; or that he has to utilize the excessive force
of his friend, then is the time for the enlistment of a friend's army.

When he thinks that he will have to make his strong enemy to
fight against another enemy on account of a city, a plain, or a wild

495
Kautilya's Arthashastra

tract of land, and that in that fight he will achieve one or the other
of his objects, just like an outcast person in the fight between a dog
and a pig; that through the battle, he will have the mischievous
power of his enemy's allies or of wild tribes destroyed; that he will
have to make his immediate and powerful enemy to march
elsewhere and thus get rid of internal rebellion which his enemy
might have occasioned; and that the time of battle between enemies
or between inferior kings has arrived, then is the time for the
exercise of an enemy's forces.

This explains the time for the engagement of wild tribes.

When he thinks that the army of wild tribes is living by the
same road (that his enemy has to traverse); that the road is
unfavourable for the march of his enemy's army; that his enemy's
army consists mostly of wild tribes; that just as a wood-apple
(bilva) is broken by means of another wood-apple, the small army
of his enemy is to be destroyed, then is the time for engaging the
army of wild tribes.

That army which is vast and is composed of various kinds of
men and is so enthusiastic as to rise even without provision and
wages for plunder when told or untold; that which is capable of
applying its own remedies against unfavourable rains; that which
can be disbanded and which is invincible for enemies; and that, of
which all the men are of the same country, same caste, and same
training, is (to be considered as) a compact body of vast power.

Such are the periods of time for recruiting the army.

Of these armies, one has to pay the army of wild tribes either
with raw produce or with allowance for plunder.

When the time for the march of one's enemy's army has
approached, one has to obstruct the enemy or send him far away, or

496
Kautilya's Arthashastra

make his movements fruitless, or, by false promise, cause him to
delay the march, and then deceive him after the time for his march
has passed away. One should ever be vigilant to increase one's own
resources and frustrate the attempts of one's enemy to gain in
strength.

Of these armies, that which is mentioned first is better than
the one subsequently mentioned in the order of enumeration.

Hereditary army is better than hired army inasmuch as the
former has its existence dependent on that of its master, and is
constantly drilled.

That kind of hired army which is ever near, ready to rise
quickly, and obedient, is better than a corporation of soldiers.

That corporation of soldiers which is native, which has the
same end in view (as the king), and which is actuated with similar
feelings of rivalry, anger, and expectation of success and gain, is
better than the army of a friend. Even that corporation of soldiers
which is further removed in place and time is, in virtue of its having
the same end in view, better than the army of a friend.

The army of an enemy under the leadership of an Arya is
better than the army of wild tribes. Both of them (the army of an
enemy and of wild tribes) are anxious for plunder. In the absence of
plunder and under troubles, they prove as dangerous as a lurking
snake.

My teacher says that of the armies composed of Brdhmans,
Kshatriyas, Vaisyas, or Siidras, that which is mentioned first is, on
account of bravery, better to be enlisted than the one subsequently
mentioned in the order of enumeration.

497
Kautilya's Arthashastra

No, says Kautilya, the enemy may win over to himself the
army of Brdhmans by means of prostration. Hence, the army of
Kshatriyas trained in the art of wielding weapons is better; or the
army of Vaisyas or Sidras having great numerical strength (is
better).

Hence one should recruit one’s army, reflecting that "such is
the army of my enemy; and this is my army to oppose it."

The army which possesses elephants, machines,
sakatagarbha (7), Kunta (a wooden rod), prdsa (a weapon, 24
inches long, with two handles), Kharvataka (7), bamboo sticks,
and iron sticks is the army to oppose an army of elephants.

The same possessed of stones, clubs, armour, hooks, and
spears in plenty is the army to oppose an army of chariots.

The same is the army to oppose cavalry.
Men, clad in armour, can oppose elephants.
Horses can oppose men, clad in armour.

Men , clad in armour, chariots, men possessing defensive
weapons, and infantry can oppose an army consisting of all the four
constituents (elephants, chariots, cavalry and infantry).

* Thusconsidering the strength of the constituents of one’s
own quadripartite army, one should recruit men to it so as to
oppose an enemys army successfully.

[Thus ends Chapter II, "The Time of Recruiting the Army, the
Form of Equipment, and the Work of Arraying a Rival Force,” in
Book IX, "The Work of an Invader,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and twenty-third chapter from the

498
Kautilya's Arthashastra

beginning. ]

CHAPTER III. CONSIDERATION OF ANNOYANCE IN
THE REAR; AND REMEDIES AGAINST INTERNAL AND
EXTERNAL TROUBLES.

OF the two things, slight annoyance in the rear, and
considerable profit in the front, slight annoyance in the rear is more
serious; for traitors, enemies, and wild tribes augment on all sides
the slight annoyance which one may have in the rear. The members
of one's own state may be provoked about the acquisition of
considerable profit in the front.

When one under the protection of another has come to such a
condition (i.e., slight annoyance in the rear and considerable profit
in the front), then one should endeavour so as to cause to the rear
enemy the loss and impoverishment of his servants and friends;
and in order to fetch the profit in the front, one should also employ
the commander of the army or the heir-apparent to lead the army.

Or the king himself may go in person to receive the profit in
the front, if he is able to ward off the annoyance in the rear. If he is
apprehensive of internal troubles, he may take with him the
suspected leaders. If he is apprehensive of external troubles, he
should march after keeping inside his capital as hostages the sons
and wives of suspected enemies and after having split into a
number of divisions the troops of the officer in charge of waste
lands (sdnyapdla) and having placed those divisions under the
command of several chiefs, or he may abandon his march, for it has
been already stated that internal troubles are more serious than
external troubles.

499
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The provocation of any one of the minister, the priest, the
commander-in-chief, and the heir-apparent is what is termed
internal trouble. The king should get rid of such an internal enemy
either by giving up his own fault or by pointing out the danger
arising from an external enemy. When the priest is guilty of the
gravest treason, relief should be found either by confining him or
by banishing him; when the heir-apparent is so, confinement or
death (nigraha), provided that there is another son of good
character. From these, the case of the minister and the
commander-in-chief is explained.

When a son, or a brother, or any other person of the royal
family attempts to seize the kingdom, he should be won over by
holding out hopes; when this is not possible, he should be
conciliated by allowing him to enjoy what he has already seized, or
by making an agreement with him, or by means of intrigue through
an enemy, or by securing to him land from an enemy, or any other
person of inimical character. Or he may be sent out on a mission
with an inimical force to receive the only punishment he deserves;
or a conspiracy may be made with a frontier king or wild tribes
whose displeasure he has incurred; or the same policy that is
employed in securing an imprisoned prince or in seizing an
enemy's villages may be resorted to.

The provocation of ministers other than the prime minister is
what is called the internal ministerial troubles. Even in this case,
necessary strategic means should be employed.

The provocation of the chief of a district (rdshramukhya), the
officer in charge of the boundary, the chief of wild tribes, and a
conquered king is what is termed external trouble. This should be
overcome by setting one against the other. Whoever among these
has strongly fortified himself should be caught hold of through the
agency of a frontier king, or the chief of wild tribes, or a scion of

500
Kautilya's Arthashastra

his family, or an imprisoned prince; or he may be captured through
the agency of a friend, so that he may not combine with an enemy;
or a spy may prevent him from combining with an enemy by
saying: "This enemy makes a cat's-paw of you and causes you to
fall upon your own lord; When his aim is realised, he makes you to
lead an army against enemies or wild tribes, or to sojourn in a
troublesome place; or he causes you to reside at a frontier station
far from the company of your sons and wife. When you have lost
all your strength, he sells you to your own lord; or having made
peace with you, he will please your own lord. Hence it is advisable
for you to go to the best friend of your lord.” When he agrees to the
proposal, he is to be honoured; but when he refuses to listen, he is
to be told: "I am specially sent to separate you from the enemy."
The spy should however appoint some persons to murder him; or
he may be killed by some concealed persons; or some persons
pretending to be brave soldiers may be made to accompany him
and may be told by a spy (to murder him). Thus the end of troubles.
One should cause such troubles to one's enemy and ward off those
of one's own.

In the case of a person who is capable of causing or
alleviating troubles, intrigue should be made use of; and in the case
of a person who is of reliable character, able to undertake works,
and to favour his ally in his success, and to afford protection
against calamities, counter-intrigue (pratijdpa) should be made use
of (to keep his friendship secure). It should also be considered
whether the person is of good disposition or of obstinate temper
(satha).

The intrigue carried on by a foreigner of obstinate temper
with local persons is of the following form:--"If after killing his
own master, he comes to me, then I will secure these two objects,
the destruction of my enemy and the acquisition of the enemy's
lands; or else my enemy kills him, with the consequence that the

501
Kautilya's Arthashastra

partisans of the relations killed, and other persons who are equally
guilty and are therefore apprehensive of similar punishment to
themselves will perturb my enemy's peace when my enemy has no
friends to count; or when my enemy falls to suspect any other
person who is equally guilty, I shall be able to cause the death of
this or that officer under my enemy's own command."

The intrigue carried on by a local person of obstinate temper
with a foreigner is of the following form:--"I shall either plunder
the treasury of this king or destroy his army; I shall murder my
master by employing this man; if my master consents, I shall cause
him to march against an external enemy or a wild tribe; let his
Circle of States be brought to confusion, let him incur enmity with
them; then it is easy to keep him under my power, and conciliate
him; or I myself shall seize the kingdom; or, having bound him in
chains, I shall obtain both my master's land and outside land; or
having caused the enemy (of my master) to march out, I shall cause
the enemy to be murdered in good faith; or I shall seize the enemy's
capital when it is empty (of soldiers).

When a person of good disposition makes a conspiracy for the
purpose of acquiring what is to be enjoyed by both then an
agreement should be made with him. But when a person of
obstinate temper so conspires, he should be allowed to have his
own way and then deceived. Thus the form of policy to be adopted
should be considered.

* Enemies from enemies, subjects from subjects, subjects
from enemies, and enemies from subjects should ever be guarded;
and both from his subjects and enemies, a learned man should ever
guard his own person.

[Thus ends Chapter 111, "Consideration of Annoyance in the Rear,
and Remedies Against Internal and External Troubles,” in Book

502
Kautilya's Arthashastra

IX, "The Work of an Invader,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End
of the hundred and twenty-fourth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IV. CONSIDERATION ABOUT LOSS OF MEN,
WEALTH, AND PROFIT.

Loss of trained men is what is called kshaya, loss of men.
Diminution of gold and grains is loss of wealth.

When the expected profit overweighs both these; then one
should march (against an enemy).

The characteristics of an expected profit are: that which is
receivable, that which is to be returned, that which pleases all, that
which excites hatred, that which is realised in a short time, that
which entails little loss of men to earn, that which entails little loss
of wealth to earn, that which is vast, that which is productive, that
which is harmless, that which is just, and that which comes first.

When a profit is easily acquired and secured without the
necessity of returning it to others, it is termed ‘receivable’; that
which is of the reverse nature is ‘repayable’; whoever goes to
receive a repayable profit or is enjoying it gets destruction.

When he, however, thinks that "by taking a repayable profit 1
shall cause my enemy’s treasury, army, and other defensive
resources to dwindle; I shall exploit to impoverishment the mines,
timber and elephant forests, irrigational works and roads of traffic
of my enemy; I shall impoverish his subjects, or cause them to
migrate, or conspire against him; when they are reduced to this
condition, my enemy inflames their hatred (by punishing them); or
I shall set my enemy against another enemy; my enemy will give
up his hopes and run away to one who has some blood-relationship

503
Kautilya's Arthashastra

with him; or having improved his lands, 1 shall return them to him,
and when he is thus brought to ascendancy, he will be a lasting
friend of mine,"--then he may take even a repayable profit. Thus
receivable and repayable profits are explained.

That profit which a virtuous king receives from a wicked king
pleases both his own and other people; that which is of the reverse
nature excites hatred; that profit which is received at the advice of
ministers excites hatred, for they think: “This king has reduced our
party and impoverished us.” That profit which is received without
caring for the opinion of treacherous ministers excites hatred, for
they think: "Having made the profit, this king destroys us.” But that
which is of the reverse nature pleases. Thus pleasing and
provoking profits are explained.

That which is acquired by mere marching is what is acquired
soon.

That which is to be realised by negotiation (mantrasdddhya)
entails little loss of men.

That which requires merely the expenditure of provisions (for
servants employed to earn it) entails little loss of wealth.

That which is immediately of considerable value is vast.

That which is the source of wealth is productive.

That which is attained with no troubles is harmless.

That which is acquired best is just.

That which is acquired without any hindrance from allies is
profit coming first.

504
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When profits (from two sources) are equal, he should
consider the place and time, the strength and means (required to
acquire it), affection and disaffection (caused by it), intrigue and
absence of intrigue (involving it), its nearness and distance, its
present and future effects, its constant worth or worthlessness, and
its plentifulness and usefulness; and he should accept only that
profit which is possessed of most of the above good characteristics.

Obstructions to profit are: passion, anger, timidity, mercy,
bashfulness, living like one who is not an Arya, haughtiness, pity,
desire for the other world, strict adherence to virtuous life,
deception, neediness, envy, negligence of what is at hand,
generosity, want of faith, fear, inability to endure cold, heat, and
rain, and faith in the auspiciousness of lunar days and stars.

*Wealth will pass away from that childish man who inquires
most after the stars; for wealth is the star for wealth; what will the
stars do?

*Capable men will certainly secure wealth at least after a
hundred trials; and wealth is bound by wealth just as elephants are
bound by counter-elephants.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, “Consideration about Loss of Men, Wealth
and Profit,” in Book IX, “The Work of an Invader,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and twenty-fifth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL DANGERS.

THE formation of a treaty and other settlements otherwise

505
Kautilya's Arthashastra

than they ought to have been made is impolicy. From it arise
dangers.

The various kinds of dangers are: that which is of external
origin and of internal abetment; that which is of internal origin and
of external abetment; that which is of external origin and of
external abetment; and that which is of internal origin and of
internal abetment.

Where foreigners carry on an intrigue with local men or local
men with foreigners, there the consequence of the intrigue carried
on by the combination of local and foreign persons will be very
serious. Abettors of an intrigue have a better chance of success than
its originators; for when the originators of an intrigue are put down,
others will hardly succeed in undertaking any other intrigue.
Foreigners can hardly win over local persons by intrigue; nor can
local men seduce foreigners. Foreigners will find their vast efforts
after all unavailing, and only conducive, to the prosperity of the
king (against whom they want to conspire).

When local persons are abetting (with foreigners), the means
to be employed to suppress them are conciliation (sdma) and gifts
(ddna).

The act of pleasing a man with a high rank and honour is
conciliation; favour and remission of taxes or employment to
conduct state-works is what is termed gifts.

When foreigners are abetting, the king should employ the
policy of dissension and coercion. Spies under the guise of friends
may inform foreigners: "Mind, this man is desirous of deceiving
you with the help of his own spies who are disguised as traitors.”
Spies under the garb of traitors may mix with traitors and separate
them from foreigners, or foreigners from local traitors. Fiery spies
may make friendship with traitors and kill them with weapons or

506
Kautilya's Arthashastra

poison; or having invited the plotting foreigners, they may murder
the latter.

Where foreigners carry on an intrigue with foreigners, or local
men with local men, there the consequences of the intrigue,
unanimously carried on with a set purpose, will be very serious.
When guilt is got rid of, there will be no guilty persons; but when a
guilty person is got rid of, the guilt will contaminate others. Hence,
when foreigners carry on an intrigue, the king should employ the
policy of dissension and coercion. Spies under the guise of friends
may inform foreign conspirators: "Mind, this your king, with the
desire of enriching himself, is naturally provoked against you all.”
Then fiery spies may mix with the servants and soldiers of the
abettor (of foreign conspirators) and kill them with weapons,
poison, and other means. Other spies may then expose or betray the
abettor.

When local men carry on an intrigue with local men, the king
should employ necessary strategic means to put it down. He may
employ the policy of conciliation with regard to those who keep the
appearance of contentment, or who are naturally discontented or
otherwise. Gifts may be given under the pretext of having been
satisfied with a favoured man's steadfastness in maintaining the
purity of his character, or under the plea of anxious care about his
weal or woe. A spy under the garb of a friend may tell the local
persons: “Your king is attempting to find your heart; you should
tell him the truth.” Or local men may be separated from each other,
by telling them: "This man carries such a tale to the king against
you.” And coercive measures may be employed as described in the
Chapter on "Awards of Punishments.”

Of these four kinds of danger, internal danger should first be
got rid of; for it has been already stated that internal troubles like
the fear from a lurking snake are more serious than external
troubles.

507
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* One must consider that of these four kinds of danger, that
which is mentioned first is less grave than the one subsequently
mentioned, whether or not it is caused by powerful persons;
otherwise (i.e., when the danger is caused by insignificant
persons), simple means may be used to get rid of it.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "External and Internal Dangers" in Book
IX, "The Work of an Invader,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End
of the hundred and twenty-sixth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER VI. PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH TRAITORS
AND ENEMIES

THERE are two kinds of innocent persons, those who have
disassociated themselves from traitors and those who have kept
themselves away from enemies.

In order to separate citizens and country-people from traitors,
the king should employ all the strategic means, except coercion. It
is very difficult to inflict punishment on an assembly of influential
men; and if inflicted at all, it may not produce the desired effect,
but may give rise to undesirable consequences. He may, however,
take steps against the leaders of the seditious as shown in the
chapter on "Awards of Punishments."

In order to separate his people from an enemy, he should
employ conciliation and other strategic means to frustrate the
attempt of those who are the enemy's principal agents or by whom
the enemy's work is to be carried out.

Success in securing the services of capable agents depends

508
Kautilya's Arthashastra

upon the king; success of efforts depends upon ministers; and
success to be achieved through capable agents is, therefore,
dependent both upon the king and his ministers.

When, in spite of the combination of traitors and loyal
persons, success is achieved, it is mixed success; when people are
thus mixed, success is to be achieved through the agency of loyal
persons; for in the absence of a support, nothing that requires a
support for its existence can exist. When success is involved in the
union of friends and enemies it is termed a success contaminated
by an enemy; when success is contaminated by an enemy, it is to be
achieved through the agency of a friend; for it is easy to attain
success through a friend, but not through an enemy.

When a friend does not come to terms, intrigue should be
frequently resorted to. Through the agency of spies, the friend
should be won over after separating him from the enemy. Or
attempts may be made to win him over who is the last among
combined friends; for when he who is the last among combined
friends is secured, those who occupy the middle rank will be
separated from each other; or attempts may be made to win over a
friend who occupies middle rank; for when a friend occupying
middle rank among combined kings is secured, friends, occupying
the extreme ranks cannot keep the union. (In brief) all those
measures which tend to break their combination should be
employed.

A virtuous king may be conciliated by praising his birth,
family, learning and character, and by pointing out the relationship
which his ancestors had (with the proposer of peace), or by
describing the benefits and absence of enmity shown to him.

Or a king who is of good intentions, or who has lost his
enthusiastic spirits, or whose strategic means are all exhausted and

509
Kautilya's Arthashastra

thwarted in a number of wars, or who has lost his men and wealth,
or who has suffered from sojourning abroad, or who is desirous of
gaining a friend in good faith, or who is apprehensive of danger
from another, or who cares more for friendship than anything else,
may be won over by conciliation.

Or a king who is greedy or who has lost his men may be won
over by giving gifts through the medium of ascetics and chiefs who
have been previously kept with him for the purpose.

Gifts are of five kinds: abandonment of what is to be paid;
continuance of what is being given; repayment of what is received,
payment of one's own wealth; and help for a voluntary raid on the
property of others.

When any two kings are apprehensive of enmity and seizure
of land from each other, seeds of dissension may be sown between
them. The timid of the two may be threatened with destruction and
may be told: "Having made peace with you, this king works against
you; the friend of this other king is permitted to make an open
peace.”

When from one's own country or from another's country
merchandise or commodities for manufacture in a manufactory are
going to an enemy's country, spies may spread the information that
those commodities are obtained from one whom the enemy wanted
to march against. When commodities are thus gathered in
abundance (the owner of the articles) may send a message to the
enemy: "These commodities and merchandise are sent by me to
you; please declare war against the combined kings or desert them;
you will then get the rest of the tribute.” Then spies may inform the
other kings of the combination; "These articles are given to him by
your enemy."

510
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The conqueror may gather some merchandise peculiar to his
enemy's country and unknown elsewhere. Spies, under the garb of
merchants, may sell that merchandise to other important enemies
and tell them that that merchandise was given (to the conqueror) by
the enemy (whose country's product it is).

Or having pleased with wealth and honour those who are
highly treacherous (among an enemy's people), the conqueror may
cause them to live with the enemy, armed with weapons, poison
and fire. One of the ministers of the enemy may be killed. His sons
and wife may be induced to say that the minister was killed at night
(by such and such a person). Then the enemy's minister may ask
every one of the family of the murdered minister (as to the cause of
the death). If they say in reply as they are told, they may be caused
to be set free; if they do not do so, they may be caused to be caught
hold of. Whoever has gained the confidence of the king may tell
the king (the enemy) that he (the enemy) has to guard his own
person from such and such a minister. Then the recipient of salaries
from the two states (the conqueror’s and the enemy's state) may
inform the suspected minister to destroy (the king).

Or such kings as are possessed of enthusiasm and power may
be told: "Seize the country of this king, our treaty of peace standing
as before." Then spies should inform the particular king of the
attempt of these kings and cause the destruction of the
commissariat and of the followers of one of these kings. Other
spies, pretending to be friends, should inform these kings of the
necessity of destroying the particular king.

When an enemy's brave soldier, elephant, or horse dies, or is
killed, or carried off by spies, other spies may tell the enemy that
the death is due to mutual conflict among his followers. The man
who is employed to commit such murders may be asked to repeat
his work again on the condition of his receiving the balance due to

511
Kautilya's Arthashastra

him. He should receive the amount from the recipient of salaries
from two states; when the king's party is thus divided, some may be
won over (to the side of the conqueror).

This explains the case of the commander-in-chief, the prince,
and the officers of the army (of the enemy).

Likewise seeds of dissension may be sown among combined
states. Thus the work of sowing the seeds of dissension.

Spies under concealment may, without the help of a fiery spy,
murder by means of weapons, poison or other things a fortified
enemy who is of mean character or who is under troubles; any one
of hidden spies may do the work when it is found easy; or a fiery
spy alone may do the work by means of weapons, poison or fire;
for a fiery spy can do what others require all the necessary aids to
do.

Thus the four forms of strategic means.

Of these means, that which comes first in the order of
enumeration is, as stated in connection with "invaders," easier than
the rest. Conciliation is of single quality; gift is two-fold, since
conciliation precedes it; dissension is threefold, since conciliation
and gift precede it; and conciliatory coercion is fourfold, since
conciliation, gift, and dissension precede it.

The same means are employed in the case of local enemies,
too; the difference is this: the chief messengers known to the
manufactories may be sent to any one of the local enemies in order
to employ him for the purpose of making a treaty or for the purpose
of destroying another person. When he agrees to the proposal, the
messengers should inform (their master) of their success. Then
recipients of salaries from two states should inform the people or

512
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enemies concerned in the local enemy's work: "This person (the
local enemy) is your wicked king." When a person has reason to
fear or hate another, spies may augment dissension between them
by telling one of them: "This man is making an agreement with
your enemy, and will soon deceive you; hence make peace (with
the king) soon and attempt to put down this man.” Or by bringing
about friendship or marriage connection between persons who
have not been hitherto connected, spies may separate them from
others; or through the aid of a neighbouring king, a wild chief, a
scion of an enemy ’s family, or an imprisoned prince, local enemies
may be destroyed outside the kingdom; or through the agency of a
caravan or wild tribes, a local enemy may be killed along with his
army; or persons, pretending to be the supporters of a local enemy
and who are of the same caste, may under favourable opportunities
kill him; or spies under concealment may kill local enemies with
fire, poison, and weapons.

* Whenthe country is full of local enemies, they may be got
rid of by making them drink poisonous (liquids); an obstinate
(clever) enemy may be destroyed by spies or by means of
(poisoned) flesh given to him in good faith.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, "Persons Associated with Traitors and
Enemies,” in Book IX, “The Work of an Invader,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and twenty-seventh
chapter from the beginning,

CHAPTER VII. DOUBTS ABOUT WEALTH AND HARM;
AND SUCCESS TO BE OBTAINED BY THE
EMPLOYMENT OF ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIC
MEANS.

513
Kautilya's Arthashastra

INTENSITY of desire and other passions provoke one's own
people; impolicy provokes external enemies. Both these are the
characteristics of demoniac life. Anger disturbs the feelings of
one's own men. Those causes which are conducive to the
prosperity of one's enemy are dangerous wealth, provocative
wealth, and wealth of doubtful consequences.

Wealth which, when obtained, increases the enemy's
prosperity, or which, though obtained, is repayable to the enemy,
or which causes loss of men and money, is dangerous wealth; for
example, wealth which is enjoyed in common by neighbouring
kings and which is acquired at their expense; or wealth which is
asked for by an enemy; or wealth which is seized like one's own
property; or wealth which is acquired in the front and which causes
future troubles or provokes an enemy in the rear; or wealth which is
obtained by destroying a friend or by breaking a treaty and which is
therefore detested by the Circle of States--all these are the varieties
of dangerous wealth.

Wealth which causes fear from one's own people or from an
enemy is provocative wealth.

When, in connection with these two kinds of wealth, there
arise doubts, such as: "Is it provocative wealth or not? Harmless
wealth or provocative wealth? First provocative and then
harmless? Is it profitable to encourage an enemy or a friend?
Would the bestowal of wealth and honour on an enemy's army
excite hatred or not?"--of these doubts, doubt regarding the
acquirement of wealth is preferable to (doubts regarding harm or
provocation).

Wealth productive of wealth; wealth productive of nothing;
wealth productive of harm; loss or harm productive of wealth;
sustenance of harm for no profit; harm productive of harm--these
are the six varieties of harmful wealth.

514
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Destruction of an enemy in the front resulting in the
destruction of an enemy in the rear is what is termed "wealth
productive of wealth.”

Wealth acquired by helping a neutral king with the army is
what is called "wealth productive of nothing.”

The reduction of the internal strength of an enemy is "wealth
productive of harm.”

Helping the neighbouring king of an enemy with men and
money is "harm productive of wealth.”

Withdrawal after encouraging or setting a king of poor
resources (against another) is "harm productive of nothing.”

Inactivity after causing excitement to a superior king is
"harm productive of harm."

Of these, it is better to pursue that which is mentioned first in
the order of enumeration than that which is subsequently
mentioned. Thus the procedure of setting to work.

When the surrounding circumstances are conducive to
wealth, it is known as wealth from all sides.

When the acquirement of wealth from all sides is obstructed
by an enemy in the rear, it takes the form of dangerous wealth
involved in doubts.

In these two cases, success can be achieved by securing the
help of a friend and the enemy of the rear-enemy.

When there is reason to apprehend fear from enemies on all

515
Kautilya's Arthashastra

sides, it is a dangerous trouble; when a friend comes forward to
avert this fear, that trouble becomes involved in doubt. In these two
cases, success can be achieved by securing the support of a
nomadic enemy and the enemy of the rear-enemy.

When the prospect of acquiring profit from one or the other
side is irremediably obstructed by enemies, it is called "dangerous
wealth.” In this case as well as in the case of profit from all sides,
one should undertake to march for acquiring profitable wealth.
When the prospects of getting wealth (from two sides) are equal,
one should march to secure that which is important, near, unfailing,
and obtainable by easy means.

When there is the apprehension of harm from one quarter as
well as from another, it is wealth beset with danger from two sides.
In this case as well as in the case of wealth involved in danger from
all sides, success is to be desired with the help of friends. In the
absence of friends, he should attempt to ward off harm from one
side with the help of an ally who can be easily won over; he should
ward off harm from two sides with help of an ally of superior
power; and he should ward off harm from all sides with all the
resources he can command. When it is impossible to do this, he
should run away, leaving all that belongs to him; for if he lives, his
return to power is certain as in the case of Suydtra and Udayana.

When there is the prospect of wealth from one side and the
apprehension of an attack from another, it is termed a situation
beset with wealth and harm. In this case, he should march to
acquire that wealth which will enable him to ward off the attack;
otherwise he should attempt to avert the attack. This explains the
situation which is beset with wealth and harm on all sides.

When there is the apprehension of harm from one side and
when the prospect of acquiring wealth from another side is
involved in doubt, it is termed doubt of harm and wealth from two

516
Kautilya's Arthashastra

sides. In this, he should ward off the harm first; when this is done,
he should attempt to acquire the doubtful wealth. This explains the
doubtful situation of harm and wealth from all sides.

When there is the prospect of wealth from one side and the
apprehension of doubtful harm from another, it is a doubtful
situation of harm and wealth from two sides. This explains the
situation of doubtful harm and wealth from all sides. In this, he
should attempt to ward off the doubts of harm against each of the
elements of his sovereignty in order; for it is better to leave a friend
under circumstances of doubtful harm, than the army; also the
army may be left under circumstances of doubtful harm, but not the
treasury. When all the elements of his sovereignty cannot be
relieved from harm, he should attempt to relieve some of them at
least. Among the elements, he should attempt to relieve first those
animate elements which are most loyal, and free from firebrands
and greedy men; of inanimate elements (he should relieve) that
which is most precious and useful. Such elements as are capable of
easy relief may be relieved by such means as an agreement of
peace, observance of neutrality, and making peace with one and
waging war with another. Those which require greater efforts may
be relieved by other means.

Of deterioration, stagnation and progress, he should attempt
to secure that which is mentioned later in the order of enumeration;
or in the reverse order, if he finds that deterioration and other
stages are conducive to future prosperity. Thus the determination
of situations. This explains the situation of doubtful harm and
wealth in the middle or at the close of a march.

Since doubts of wealth and harm are constantly associated
with all expeditions, it is better to secure wealth by which it is easy
to destroy an enemy in the rear and his allies, to recoup the loss of
men and money, to make provisions during the time of sojourning

517
Kautilya's Arthashastra

abroad, to make good what is repayable, and to defend the state.
Also harm or doubtful prospects of wealth in one's own state are
always intolerable.

This explains the situation of doubtful harm in the middle of
an expedition. But at the close of an expedition, it is better to
acquire wealth either by reducing or destroying a reducible or
assailable enemy than to get into a situation of doubtful harm, lest
enemies might cause troubles. But, for one who is not the leader of
combination of states, it is better to risk the situation of doubtful
wealth or harm in the middle or at the close of an expedition, since
one is not obliged to continue the expedition.

Wealth, virtue, and enjoyment form the aggregate of the three
kinds of wealth. Of these, it is better to secure that which is
mentioned first than that which is subsequently mentioned in the
order of enumeration.

Harm, sin and grief form the aggregate, of the three kinds of
harm. Of these, it is better to provide against that which is
mentioned first, than that which is subsequently mentioned.

Wealth or harm, virtue or sin, and enjoyment or grief, are the
aggregate of the three kinds of doubts. Of these, it is better to try
that which is mentioned first than that which is mentioned later in
the order of enumeration, and which it is certain to shake off. Thus
the determination of opportunities. Thus ends the discourse on
danger.

Regarding success in these dangerous situations and times: in
the case of troubles from sons, brothers or relatives, it is better to
secure relief by means of conciliation and gifts; in the case of
troubles from citizens, country people, or chiefs of the army, it is
by means of gifts and sowing the seeds of dissension; in the case of

518
Kautilya's Arthashastra

troubles from a neighbouring king or wild tribes, it is by means of
sowing the seeds of dissension and coercion. This is following the
order of the means. In other kinds of situations, the same means
may be employed in the reverse order.

Success against friends and enemies is always achieved by
complicated means; for strategic means help each other. In the case
of suspected ministers of an enemy, the employment of
conciliation does not need the use of the other means; in the case of
treacherous ministers it is by means of gifts; in the case of
combination of states, it is by means of sowing the seeds of
dissension; and in the case of the powerful, it is by means of
coercion.

When grave and light dangers are together apprehended, a
particular means, or alternative means or all the means may be
employed.

By this alone, but not by any other means, is what is meant

by a particular means.

By this or that, is what is meant by alternative means.
By this as well as by that, is what is meant by all the means.

Of these, the single means as well as the combination of any
three means are four; the combinations of any two means are six;
and the combination of all the four is one. Thus there are fifteen
kinds of strategic means. Of the same number are the means in the
reverse order.

When a king attains success by only one means among these
various means, he is called one of single success; when by two, one
of double success; when by three, one of treble success; and when
by four, one of four-fold success.

519
Kautilya's Arthashastra

As virtue is the basis of wealth and as enjoyment is the end of
wealth, success in achieving that kind of wealth which promotes
virtue, wealth and enjoyment is termed success in all
(sarvdrthasiddhi). Thus varieties of success.

Such providential visitations as fire, floods, disease,
pestilence (pramara), fever (vidrava), famine, and demoniac
troubles are dangerous.

Success in averting these is to be sought by worshipping
gods and Brahmans.

* Whether demoniacal troubles are absent, or are too many, or
normal, the rites prescribed in the Atharvaveda as well as the rites
undertaken by accomplished ascetics are to be performed for
success.

[Thus ends Chapter VII, “Doubts about Wealth and Harm; and
Success to be Obtained by the Employment of Alternative
Strategic Means” in Book IX, “The Work of an Invader,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and twenty-eighth
chapter from the beginning. With this, ends the ninth Book “The
Work of an Invader” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 411-436.

520
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book X, "Relating to War”

CHAPTER 1. ENCAMPMENT.

ON a site declared to be the best according to the science of
buildings, the leader (ndyaka), the carpenter (vardhaki), and the
astrologer (mauhiirtika) should measure a circular, rectangular, or
square spot for the camp which should, in accordance with the
available space, consist of four gates, six roads, and nine divisions.

Provided with ditches, parapets, walls, doors, and watch
towers for defence against fear, the quarters of the king, 1,000
bows long and half as broad, should be situated in one of the nine
divisions to the north from the centre, while to the west of it his
harem, and at its extremity the army of the harem are to be situated.
In his front, the place for worshipping gods; to his right the
departments of finance and accounts; and to his left the quarters of
elephants and horses mounted by the king himself. Outside this and
at a distance of 100 bows from each other, there should be fixed
four cart-poles (sakatamedhi) pillars and walls. In the first (of these
four divisions), the prime minister and the priest (should have their
quarters); to its right the store-house and the kitchen: to its left the
store of raw products and weapons; in the second division the
quarters of the hereditary army and of horses and chariots: outside
this, hunters and keepers of dogs with their trumpets and with fire;
also spies and sentinels; also, to prevent the attack of enemies,
wells, mounds and thorns should be arranged. The eighteen
divisions of sentinels employed for the purpose of securing the
safety of the king should be changing their watches in turn. In order
to ascertain the movements of spies, a time-table of business
should also be prepared during the day. Disputes, drinking, social
gatherings, and gambling should also be prohibited. The system of

521
Kautilya's Arthashastra

passports should also be observed. The officer in charge of the
boundary (of the camp) should supervise the conduct of the
commander-in-chief and the observance of the instructions given
to the army.

* The instructor (prasdstd) with his retinue and with
carpenters and free labourers should carefully march in front on the
road, and should dig wells of water.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “Encampment,” in Book X, “Relating to
War,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
twenty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. MARCH OF THE CAMP; AND
PROTECTION OF THE ARMY IN TIMES OF DISTRESS
AND ATTACK.

HAVING prepared a list of the villages and forests situated
on the road with reference to their capacity to supply grass,
firewood and water, march of the army should be regulated
according to the programme of short and long halts. Food-stuffs
and provisions should be carried in double the quantity that may be
required in any emergency. In the absence of separate means to
carry food-stuffs, the army itself should be entrusted with the
business of carrying them; or they may be stored in a central place.

In front the leader (ndyaka); in the centre the harem and the
master (the king); on the sides horses and bodyguards (bdhiitsdra);
at the extremity of the (marching) circular-array, elephants and the
surplus army; on all sides the army habituated to forest-life; and
other troops following the camp, the commissariat, the army of an
ally, and his followers should select their own road: for armies who
have secured suitable positions will prove superior in fight to those

522
Kautilya's Arthashastra

who are in bad positions.

The army of the lowest quality can march a yojana (5 5/44
miles a day); that of the middle quality a yojana and a half and the
best army two yojanas. Hence, it is easy to ascertain the rate of
march. The commander should march behind and put up his camp
in the front.

In case of any obstruction, the army should march in
crocodile array in the front, in cart-like array behind, and on the
sides in diamond-like array (i.e., in four or five rows, each having
its front, rear and sides) and in a compact array on all sides. When
the army is marching on a path passable by a single man, it should
march in pin-like array. When peace is made with one and war is to
be waged with another, steps should be taken to protect the friends
who are bringing help against enemies, such as an enemy in the
rear, his ally, a madhyama king, or a neutral king. Roads with
obstructions should be examined and cleared. Finance, the army,
the the strength of the armies of friends, enemies, and wild tribes,
the prospect of rains, and the seasons should be thoroughly
examined.

When the protective power of fortifications and stores (of the
enemies) is on its decay, when it is thought that distress of the hired
army or of a friend's army (of the enemy) is impending; when
intriguers are not for a quick march; or when the enemy is likely to
come to terms (with the invader), slow march should be made;
otherwise quick march should be made.

Waters may be crossed by means of elephants, planks spread
over pillars erected, bridges, boats, timber and mass of bamboos, as
well as by means of dry sour gourds, big baskets covered with
skins, rafts, gandikd (i), and venikd (i).

523
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When the crossing of a river is obstructed by the enemy, the
invader may cross it elsewhere together with his elephants and
horses, and entangle the enemy in an ambuscade (sattra).

He should protect his army when it has to pass a long desert
without water; when it is without grass, firewood and water; when
it has to traverse a difficult road; when it is harassed by an enemy's
attacks; when it is suffering from hunger and thirst after a journey;
when it is ascending or descending a mountainous country full of
mire, water-pools, rivers and cataracts; when it finds itself crowded
in a narrow and difficult path; when it is halting, starting or eating;
when it is tired from a long march; when it is sleepy; when it is
suffering from a disease, pestilence or famine; when a great portion
of its infantry, cavalry and elephants is diseased; when it is not
sufficiently strong; or when it is under troubles. He should destroy
the enemy's army under such circumstances.

When the enemy's army is marching through a path
traversable by a single man, the commander (of the invader's army)
should ascertain its strength by estimating the quantity of
food-stuffs, grass, bedding, and other requisites, fire pots
(agninidhdna), flags and weapons. He should also conceal those of
his own army.

* Keeping a mountainous or river fortress with all its
resources at his back in his own country he should fight or put up
his camp.

[Thus ends Chapter II, "March of the Camp; and Protection of the
Army in Times of Distress and Attack” in Book X, "Relating to
War" of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
thirtieth chapter from the beginning. ]

524
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER III. FORMS OF TREACHEROUS FIGHTS;
ENCOURAGEMENT TO ONE'S OWN ARMY AND FIGHT
BETWEEN ONE'S OWN AND ENEMY'S ARMIES.

HE who is possessed of a strong army, who has succeeded in
his intrigues, and who has applied remedies against dangers may
undertake an open fight, if he has secured a position favourable to
himself; otherwise a treacherous fight.

He should strike the enemy when the latter's army is under
troubles or is furiously attacked; or he who has secured a
favourable position may strike the enemy entangled in an
unfavourable position. Or he who possesses control over the
elements of his own state may, through the aid of the enemy's
traitors, enemies and inimical wild tribes, make a false impression
of his own defeat on the mind of the enemy who is entrenched in a
favourable position, and having thus dragged the enemy into an
unfavourable position, he may strike the latter. When the enemy's
army is in a compact body, he should break it by means of his
elephants; when the enemy has come down from its favourable
position, following the false impression of the invader's defeat, the
invader may turn back and strike the enemy's army, broken or
unbroken. Having struck the front of the enemy's army, he may
strike it again by means of his elephants and horses when it has
shown its back and is running away. When frontal attack is
unfavourable, he should strike it from behind; when attack on the
rear is unfavourable, he should strike it in front; when attack on one
side is unfavourable, he should strike it on the other.

Or having caused the enemy to fight with his own army of
traitors, enemies and wild tribes, the invader should with his fresh
army strike the enemy when tired. Or having through the aid of the
army of traitors given to the enemy the impression of defeat, the

525
Kautilya's Arthashastra

invader with full confidence in his own strength may allure and
strike the over-confident enemy. Or the invader, if he is vigilant,
may strike the careless enemy when the latter is deluded with the
thought that the invader's merchants, camp and carriers have been
destroyed. Or having made his strong force look like a weak force,
he may strike the enemy's brave men when falling against him. Or
having captured the enemy's cattle or having destroyed the enemy's
dogs (svapadavadha?), he may induce the enemy's brave men to
come out and may slay them. Or having made the enemy's men
sleepless by harassing them at night, he may strike them during the
day, when they are weary from want of sleep and are parched by
heat, himself being under the shade. Or with his army of elephants
enshrouded with cotton and leather dress, he may offer a
night-battle to his enemy. Or he may strike the enemy's men during
the afternoon when they are tired by making preparations during
the forenoon; or he may strike the whole of the enemy's army when
it is facing the sun.

A desert, a dangerous spot, marshy places, mountains,
valleys, uneven boats, cows, cart-like array of the army, mist, and
night are sattras (temptations alluring the enemy against the
invader).

The beginning of an attack is the time for treacherous fights.

As to an open or fair fight, a virtuous king should call his
army together, and, specifying the place and time of battle, address
them thus: "I am a paid servant like yourselves; this country is to be
enjoyed (by me) together with you; you have to strike the enemy
specified by me."

His minister and priest should encourage the army by saying
thus:--

526
Kautilya's Arthashastra

"It is declared in the Vedas that the goal which is reached by
sacrificers after performing the final ablutions in sacrifices in
which the priests have been duly paid for is the very goal which
brave men are destined to attain.” About this there are the two
verses--

* Beyond those places which Brahmans, desirous of getting into
heaven, attain together with their sacrificial instruments by
performing a number of sacrifices, or by practising penance are the
places which brave men, losing life in good battles, are destined to
attain immediately.

* Let not a new vessel filled with water, consecrated and covered
over with darbha grass be the acquisition of that man who does not
fight in return for the subsistence received by him from his master,
and who is therefore destined to go to hell.

Astrologers and other followers of the king should infuse
spirit into his army by pointing out the impregnable nature of the
array of his army, his power to associate with gods, and his
omnisciency; and they should at the same time frighten the enemy.
The day before the battle, the king should fast and lie down on his
chariot with weapons. He should also make oblations into the fire
pronouncing the mantras of the Atharvaveda, and cause prayers to
be offered for the good of the victors as well as of those who attain
to heaven by dying in the battle-field. He should also submit his
person to Brahmans; he should make the central portion of his
army consist of such men as are noted for their bravery, skill, high
birth, and loyalty and as are not displeased with the rewards and
honours bestowed on them. The place that is to be occupied by the
king is that portion of the army which is composed of his father,
sons, brothers, and other men, skilled in using weapons, and having
no flags and head-dress. He should mount an elephant or a chariot,
if the army consists mostly of horses; or he may mount that kind of
animal, of which the army is mostly composed or which is the most

527
Kautilya's Arthashastra

skillfully trained. One who is disguised like the king should attend
to the work of arraying the army.

Soothsayers and court bards should describe heaven as the
goal for the brave and hell for the timid; and also extol the caste,
corporation, family, deeds, and character of his men. The followers
of the priest should proclaim the auspicious aspects of the
witchcraft performed. Spies, carpenters and astrologers should also
declare the success of their own operations and the failure of those
of the enemy.

After having pleased the army with rewards and honours, the
commander-in-chief should address it and say:--

A hundred thousand (panas) for slaying the king (the enemy);
fifty thousand for slaying the commander-in-chief, and the
heir-apparent; ten thousand for slaying the chief of the brave; five
thousand for destroying an elephant, or a chariot; a thousand for
killing a horse, a hundred (panas) for slaying the chief of the
infantry; twenty for bringing a head; and twice the pay in addition
to whatever is seized. This information should be made known to
the leaders of every group of ten (men).

Physicians with surgical instruments (sastra), machines,
remedial oils, and cloth in their hands; and women with prepared
food and beverage should stand behind, uttering encouraging
words to fighting men.

The army should be arrayed on a favourable position, facing
other than the south quarter, with its back turned to the sun, and
capable to rush as it stands. If the array is made on an unfavourable
spot, horses should be run. If the army arrayed on an unfavourable
position is confined or is made to run away from it (by the enemy),
it will be subjugated either as standing or running away; otherwise

528
Kautilya's Arthashastra

it will conquer the enemy when standing or running away. The
even, uneven, and complex nature of the ground in the front or on
the sides or in the rear should be examined. On an even site,
staff-like or circular array should be made; and on an uneven
ground, arrays of compact movement or of detached bodies should
be made.

Having broken the whole army (of the enemy), (the invader)
should seek for peace; if the armies are of equal strength, he should
make peace when requested for it; and if the enemy's army is
inferior, he should attempt to destroy it, but not that which has
secured a favourable position and is reckless of life.

* When a broken army, reckless of life, resumes its attack, its
fury becomes irresistible; hence he should not harass a broken
army (of the enemy).

[Thus ends Chapter III, "Forms of Treacherous Fights;
Encouragement to One's Own Army, and Fight Between One's
Own and Enemy's Armies,” in Book X, "Relating to War," of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirty-first chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IV. BATTLEFIELDS; THE WORK OF
INFANTRY, CAVALRY, CHARIOTS, AND ELEPHANTS.

FAVOURABLE positions for infantry, cavalry, chariots, and
elephants are desirable both for war and camp.

For men who are trained to fight in desert tracts, forests,
valleys, or plains, and for those who are trained to fight from
ditches or heights, during the day or night, and for elephants which

529
Kautilya's Arthashastra

are bred in countries with rivers, mountains, marshy lands, or
lakes, as well as for horses, such battlefields as they would find
suitable (are to be secured).

That which is even, splendidly firm, free from mounds and
pits made by wheels and foot-prints of beasts, not offering
obstructions to the axle, free from trees, plants, creepers and trunks
of trees, not wet, and free from pits, ant-hills, sand, and thorns is
the ground for chariots.

For elephants, horses and men, even or uneven grounds are
good, either for war or for camp.

That which contains small stones, trees and pits that can be
jumped over and which is almost free from thorns is the ground for
horses.

That which contains big stones, dry or green trees, and
ant-hills is the ground for the infantry.

That which is uneven with assailable hills and valleys, which
has trees that can be pulled down and plants that can be torn, and
which is full of muddy soil free from thorns is the ground for
elephants.

That which is free from thorns, not very uneven, but very
expansive, is an excellent ground for the infantry.

That which is doubly expansive, free from mud, water and
roots of trees, and which is devoid of piercing gravel is an excellent
ground for horses.

That which possesses dust, muddy soil, water, grass and
weeds, and which is free from thorns (known as dog's teeth) and
obstructions from the branches of big trees is an excellent ground

530
Kautilya's Arthashastra

for elephants.

That which contains lakes, which is free from mounds and
wet lands, and which affords space for turning is an excellent
ground for chariots.

Positions suitable for all the constituents of the army have
been treated of. This explains the nature of the ground which is fit
for the camp or battle of all kinds of the army.

Concentration on occupied positions, in camps and forests;
holding the ropes (of beasts and other things) while crossing the
rivers or when the wind is blowing hard; destruction or protection
of the commissariat and of troops arriving afresh; supervision of
the discipline of the army; lengthening the line of the army;
protecting the sides of the army; first attack; dispersion (of the
enemy's army); trampling it down; defence; seizing; letting it out;
causing the army to take a different direction; carrying the treasury
and the princes; falling against the rear of the enemy; chasing the
timid; pursuit; and concentration--these constitute the work of
horses.

Marching in the front; preparing the roads, camping grounds
and path for bringing water; protecting the sides; firm standing,
fording and entering into water while crossing pools of water and
ascending from them; forced entrance into impregnable places;
setting or quenching the fire; the subjugation of one of the four
constituents of the army; gathering the dispersed army; breaking a
compact army; protection against dangers; trampling down (the
enemy's army); frightening and driving it; magnificence; seizing;
abandoning; destruction of walls, gates and towers; and carrying
the treasury--these constitute the work of elephants.

Protection of the army; repelling the attack made by all the

531
Kautilya's Arthashastra

four constituents of the enemy's army; seizing and abandoning
(positions) during the time of battle; gathering a dispersed army;
breaking the compact array of the enemy's army; frightening it;
magnificence; and fearful noise--these constitute the work of
chariots.

Always carrying the weapons to all places; and
fighting--these constitute the work of the infantry.

The examination of camps, roads, bridges, wells and rivers;
carrying the machines, weapons, armours, instruments and
provisions; carrying away the men that are knocked down, along
with their weapons and armours---these constitute the work of free
labourers.

* The king who has a small number of horses may combine
bulls with horses; likewise when he is deficient in elephants, he
may fill up the centre of his army with mules, camels and carts.
[Thus ends Chapter IV, “Battlefields; the Work of Infantry,
Cavalry, Chariots and Elephants,” in Book X, “Relating to War,”
of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
thirty-second chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER V. THE DISTINCTIVE ARRAY OF TROOPS IN
RFSPECT OF WINGS, FLANKS, AND FRONT;
DISTINCTION BETWEEN STRONG AND WEAK
TROOPS; AND BATTLE WITH INFANTRY, CAVALRY,
CHARIOTS AND ELEPHANTS.

HAVING fortified a camp at the distance of five hundred
bows he should begin to fight. Having detached the flower of the
army and kept it on a favourable position not visible (to the
enemy), the commander-in-chief and the leader should array the
rest of the army. The infantry should be arrayed such that the space

532
Kautilya's Arthashastra

between any two men is a sama (14 angulas); cavalry with three
samas; chariots with four samas, and elephants with twice or thrice
as much space (as between any two chariots). With such an array
free to move and having no confusion, one should fight. A bow
means five aratnis (5 x 54 = 120 angulas). Archers should be
stationed at the distance of five bows (from one line to another); the
cavalry at the distance of three bows; and chariots or elephants at
the distance of five bows.

The intervening space (anikasandhi) between wings, flanks
and front of the army should be five bows. There must be three men
to oppose a horse (pratiyoddha); fifteen men or five horses to
oppose a chariot or an elephant; and as many (fifteen) servants (
pddagopa) for a horse, a chariot and an elephant should be
maintained.

Three groups (anika) of three chariots each should be
stationed in front; the same number on the two flanks and the two
wings. Thus, in an array of chariots, the number of chariots
amounts to forty-five, two hundred and twenty-five horses, six
hundred and seventy-five men, and as many servants to attend
upon the horses, chariots and elephants--this is called an even array
of troops. The number of chariots in this array (of three groups of
three chariots each) may be increased by two and two till the
increased number amounts to twenty-one. Thus, this array of odd
numbers of chariots gives rise to ten odd varieties. Thus the surplus
of the army may therefore be distributed in the above manner.
Two-thirds of the (surplus) chariots may be added to the flanks and
the wings, the rest being put in front. Thus the added surplus of
chariots should be one-third less (than the number added to the
flanks and wings). This explains the distribution of surplus
elephants and horses. As many horses, chariots, and elephants may
be added as occasion no confusion in fighting.

533
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Excess of the army is called surplus (dvdpa); deficiency in
infantry is called absence of surplus (pratydvdpa); excess of any
one of the four constituents of the army is akin to surplus
(anvdvdpa); excess of traitors is far from surplus (atydvdpa); in
accordance with one's own resources, one should increase one's
army from four to eight times the excess of the enemy's army or the
deficiency in the enemy's infantry.

The array of elephants is explained by the array of chariots.
An array of elephants, chariots, and horses mixed together may
also be made: at the extremities of the circle (array), elephants; and
on the flanks, horses and principal chariots. The array in which the
front is occupied by elephants, the flanks by chariots, and the
wings by horses is an array which can break the centre of the
enemy's army; the reverse of this can harass the extremities of the
enemy's army. An array of elephants may also be made: the front
by such elephants as are trained for war; the flanks by such as are
trained for riding; and the wings by rogue elephants. In an array of
horses, the front by horses with mail armour; and the flanks and
wings by horses without armour. In an array of infantry, men
dressed in mail armour in front, archers in the rear, and men
without armour on the wings; or horses on the wings, elephants on
the flanks, and chariots in front; other changes may also be made so
as to oppose the enemy's army successfully.

The best army is that which consists of strong infantry and of
such elephants and horses as are noted for their breed, birth,
strength, youth, vitality, capacity to run even in old age, fury, skill,
firmness, magnanimity, obedience, and good habits.

One-third of the best of infantry, cavalry and elephants should
be kept in front; two-thirds on both the flanks and wings; the array
of the army according to the strength of its constituents is in the
direct order; that which is arrayed mixing one-third of strong and
weak troops is in the reverse order. Thus, one should know all the

534
Kautilya's Arthashastra

varieties of arraying the array.

Having stationed the weak troops at the extremities, one
would be liable to the force of the enemy's onslaught. Having
stationed the flower of the army in front, one should make the
wings equally strong. One-third of the best in the rear, and weak
troops in the centre--this array is able to resist the enemy; having
made an array, he should strike the enemy with one or two of the
divisions on the wings, flanks, and front, and capture the enemy by
means of the rest of the troops.

When the enemy's force is weak, with few horses and
elephants, and is contaminated with the intrigue of treacherous
ministers, the conqueror should strike it with most of his best
troops. He should increase the numerical strength of that
constituent of the army which is physically weak. He should array
his troops on that side on which the enemy is weak or from which
danger is apprehended.

Running against; running round; running beyond; running
back; disturbing the enemy's halt; gathering the troops; curving,
circling, miscellaneous operations; removal of the rear; pursuit of
the line from the front, flanks and rear; protection of the broken
army; and falling upon the broken army--these are the forms of
waging war with horses.

The same varieties with the exception of (what is called)
miscellaneous operations; the destruction of the four constituents
of the army, either single or combined; the dispersion of the flanks,
wings and front trampling down; and attacking the army when it is
asleep--these are the varieties of waging war with elephants.

The same varieties with the exception of disturbing the
enemy's halt; running against; running back; and fighting from
where it stands on its own ground--these are the varieties of waging

535
Kautilya's Arthashastra

war with chariots.

Striking in all places and at all times, and striking by surprise
are varieties of waging war with infantry.

* In this way, he should make odd or even arrays, keeping the
strength of the four constituents of the army equal.

* Having gone to a distance of 200 bows, the king should take his
position together with the reserve of his army; and without a
reserve, he should never attempt to fight, for it is by the reserved
force that dispersed troops are collected together.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "The Distinctive Array of Troops in
Respect of Wings, Flanks and Front; Distinction between Strong
and Weak Troops; and Battle with Infantry, Cavalry, Chariots and
Elephants,” in Book X, “Relating to War,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirty-third chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER VI. THE ARRAY OF THE ARMY LIKE A
STAFF, A SNAKE, A CIRCLE, OR IN DETACHED
ORDER; THE ARRAY OF THE ARMY AGAINST THAT
OF AN ENEMY.

WINGS and front, capable to turn (against an enemy is what
is called) a snake-like array (bhoga); the two wings, the two flanks,
the front and the reserve (form an array) according to the school of
Brihaspati. The principal forms of the array of the army, such as
that like a staff, like a snake, like a circle, and in detached order, are
varieties of the above two forms of the array consisting of wings,
flanks and front.

536
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Stationing the army so as to stand abreast, is called a
staff-like array (danda).

Stationing the army in a line so that one may follow the other,
is called a snake-like array (bhoga).

Stationing the army so as to face all the directions, is called a
circle-like array (mandala).

Detached arrangement of the army into small bodies so as to
enable each to act for itself, is termed an array in detached order
(asamhata).

That which is of equal strength on its wings, flanks and front,
is a staff-like array.

The same array is called pradara (breaking the enemy's array)
when its flanks are made to project in front.

The same is called dridhaka (firm) when its wings and flanks

are stretched back.

The same is called asahya (irresistible) when its wings are
lengthened.

When, having formed the wings, the front is made to bulge
out, it is called an eagle-like array.

The same four varieties are called "a bow,” "the centre of a
bow," "a hold," and "a strong hold,” when they are arranged in a
reverse form.

That, of which the wings are arrayed like a bow, is called
sanjaya (victory).

537
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The same with projected front is called vijaya (conqueror);
that which has its flanks and wings formed like a staff is called
sthiilakarna (big ear); the same with its front made twice as strong
as the conqueror, is called visdlavijaya (vast victory); that which
has its wings stretched forward is called chamiimukha (face of the
army); and the same is called ghashdsya (face of the fish) when it is
arrayed in the reverse form.

The staff-like array in which one (constituent of the army) is
made to stand behind the other is called a pin-like array.

When this array consists of two such lines, it is called an
aggregate (valaya); and when of four lines, it is called an invincible
array--these are the varieties of the staff-like array.

The snake-like array in which the wings, flanks and front are
of unequal depth is called sarpasdri (serpentine movement), or
gomnuitrika (the course of a cow's urine).

When it consists of two lines in front and has its wings
arranged as in the staff-like array, it is called a cart-like array; the
reverse of this is called a crocodile-like array; the cart-like array
which consists of elephants, horses and chariots is called
vdripatantaka (7)--these are the varieties of the snake-like array.

The circle-like array in which the distinction of wings, flanks
and front is lost is called sarvatomukha (facing all directions), or
sarvatobhadra (all auspicious), ashtdnika (one of eight divisions),
or vijaya (victory)--these are the varieties of the circle-like array.

That, of which the wings, flanks and front are stationed apart
is called an array in detached order; when five divisions of the
army are arranged in detached order, it is called vajra (diamond),
or godha (alligator); when four divisions, it is called udydnaka

538
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(park), or kdkapadi (crow’s foot); when three divisions, it is called
ardhachandrika (halfmoon), or karkdtakasringi (7)--these are the
varieties of the array in detached-order.

The array in which chariots form the front, elephants the
wings, and horses the rear, is called arishta (auspicious).

The array in which infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants
stand one behind the other is called achala (immovable).

The array in which elephants, horses, chariots and infantry
stand in order one behind the other is called apratihata
(invincible).

Of these, the conqueror should assail the pradara by means
of the dridhaka; dridhaka by means of the asahya; syena
(eagle-like array) by means of chdpa (an array like a bow); a hold
by means of a strong-hold; samjaya by means of vijaya;
sthiilakarna by means of visdlavijaya; vdripatantaka by means of
sarvatobhadra. He may assail all kinds of arrays by means of the
durjaya.

Of infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants, he should strike
the first-mentioned with that which is subsequently mentioned; and
a small constituent of the army with a big one.

For every ten members of each of the constituents of the
army, there must be one commander, called padika; ten padikas
under a sendpati; ten sendpatis under a ndyaka, (leader).

The constituents of the array of the army should be called
after the names of trumpet sounds, flags and ensigns. Achievement
of success in arranging the constituents of the army, in gathering
the forces, in camping, in marching, in turning back, in making
onslaughts, and in the array of equal strength depends upon the

539
Kautilya's Arthashastra

place and time of action.

* By the display of the army, by secret contrivances, by fiery spies
employed to strike the enemy engaged otherwise, by witch-craft,
by proclaiming the conqueror's association with gods, by carts, by
the ornaments of elephants;

* By inciting traitors, by herds of cattle, by setting fire to the camp,
by destroying the wings and the rear of the enemy's army, by
sowing the seeds of dissension through the agency of men under
the guise of servants;

* Or by telling the enemy that his fort was burnt, stormed, or that
some one of his family, or an enemy or a wild chief rose in
rebellion--by these and other means the conqueror should cause
excitement to the enemy.

* Thearrow shot by an archer may or may not kill a single man; but
skilful intrigue devised by wise men can kill even those who are in
the womb.

[Thus ends Chapter VI, “The Array of the Army like a Staff, a
Snake, a Circle, or in Detached Order; The Array of the Army
against that of an Enemy,”in Book X, “Relating to War,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirty-fourth
chapter from the beginning. With this ends the tenth Book
“Relating to War” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 437-453.

540
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book XI, "The Conduct of
Corporations”

CHAPTER I. CAUSES OF DISSENSION; AND SECRET
PUNISHMENT.

THE acquisition of the help of corporations is better than the
acquisition of an army, a friend, or profits. By means of
conciliation and gifts, the conqueror should secure and enjoy the
services of such corporations as are invincible to the enemy and are
favourably disposed towards himself. But those who are opposed
to him, he should put down by sowing the seeds of dissension
among them and by secretly punishing them.

The corporations of warriors (kshattriyasreni) of Kdmbhoja,
and Surdshtra, and other countries live by agriculture, trade and
wielding weapons.

The corporations of Lichchhivika,Vrijika, Mallaka,
Mudraka, Kukura, Kuru, Pdnchdla and others live by the title of a
Réja.

Spies, gaining access to all these corporations and finding out
jealousy, hatred and other causes of quarrel among them, should
sow the seeds of a well-planned dissension among them, and tell
one of them: "This man decries you.” Spies, under the guise of
teachers (dchdrya) should cause childish embroils among those of
mutual enmity on occasions of disputations about certain points of
science, arts, gambling or sports. Fiery spies may occasion quarrel
among the leaders of corporations by praising inferior leaders in
taverns and theatres; or pretending to be friends, they may excite

541
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ambition in the minds of princes by praising their high birth,
though they (the princes) are low-born; they may prevent the
superiors from interdining and intermarriage with others; they may
persuade the superiors to interdine or to intermarry with inferiors;
or they may give publicity to the consideration of priority shown to
inferior persons in social intercourse in the face of the established
custom of recognising the status of other persons by birth, bravery
and social position; or fiery spies may bring about quarrel among
them at night by destroying the things, beasts, or persons
concerned in some legal disputes. In all these disputes, the
conqueror should help the inferior party with men and money and
set them against the superior party. When they are divided, he
should remove them (from their country); or he may gather them
together and cause them to settle in a cultivable part of their own
country, under the designation of "five households” and "ten
households"; for when living together, they can be trained in the art
of wielding weapons. Specified fines should also be prescribed
against any treacherous combinations among them. He may install
as the heir-apparent a prince born of a high family, but dethroned
or imprisoned. Spies, under the guise of astrologers and others,
should bring to the notice of the corporations the royal
characteristics of the prince, and should induce the virtuous leaders
of the corporations to acknowledge their duty to the prince who is
the son of such and such a king, and who is the hearer of their
complaints. To those who are thus prevailed upon, the conqueror
should send men and money for the purpose of winning over other
partisans. On occasions of any affray spies under the guise of
vintners, should, under the plea of the birth of a son, of marriage or
of the death of a man, distribute as toast (naishechanika) hundreds
of vessels of liquor adulterated with the juice of madana plant.
Near the gates of altars (chaitya), temples, and other places under
the watch of sentinels, spies should pretend to declare their
agreement (with the enemy of the corporations), their mission,
their rewards, and bags of money with the golden seals of the

542
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enemy; when the corporations appear before the spies, they may
tell the corporations that they (the spies) have sold themselves to
the enemy, and challenge the corporations for war. Or having
seized the draught animals and golden articles belonging to the
corporations, they may give the most important of those animals
and articles to the chief of the corporations, and tell the
corporations, when asked for, that it was given to the chief (for the
purpose of causing quarrel among them).

This explains the method of sowing the seeds of dissension in
camps and among wild tribes.

Or a spy may tell a self-confident son of the chief of
corporations: "You are the son of such and such a king and are kept
here under the apprehension of danger from enemies.” When he is
deluded with this belief, the conqueror may help him with men and
money and set him against the corporations. When the object in
view is realised, the conqueror may also banish him.

Keepers of harlots or dancers, players, and actors may, after
gaining access, excite love in the minds of the chiefs of
corporations by exhibiting women endowed with bewitching youth
and beauty. By causing the woman to go to another person or by
pretending that another person has violently carried her off, they
may bring about quarrel among those who love that woman; in the
ensuing affray, fiery spies may do their work and declare: "Thus
has he been killed in consequence of his love."

A woman who has disappointed her lover and has been
forgiven, may approach a chief and say: "This chief is troubling me
when my mind is set upon you; when he is alive, I cannot stay
here,” and thus induce the former to slay the latter.

A woman who has been violently carried off at night may

543
Kautilya's Arthashastra

cause the death of her violator in the vicinity of a park or in a
pleasure house, by means of fiery spies or with poison
administered by herself. Then she may declare: "This beloved
person of mine has been killed by such and such a person.”

A spy, under the garb of an ascetic, may apply to a lover such
medical ointments as are declared to be capable of captivating the
beloved woman and as are adulterated with poison; and then he
may disappear. Other spies may ascribe the incident to an enemy's
action.

Widows or women, employed as spies with secret
instructions, may dispute among themselves about the claim for a
deposit kept with the king, and attract the chiefs of the corporations
(by their beauty when they present themselves before the king).

Harlots, or a dancing woman, or a songstress may make an
appointment to meet a lover in some secret house; and when the
lover comes to the house with the desire of meeting her there, fiery
spies may kill him or carry him off bound (in chains).

A spy may tell the chief of a corporation who is fond of
women: "In this village, the family of a poor man is bereaved (of
the householder); his wife deserves to be the wife of a king; seize
her.” Half a month after she has been seized, an ascetic spy may
accuse the chief in the midst of the corporation by saying: "This
man has illegally kept my chief wife, or sister-in-law, or sister, or
daughter.” If the corporation punishes the chief, the conqueror may
take the side of the corporation and set it against wicked persons.
Fiery spies should always cause an ascetic spy to go abroad at
night. Spies, selected suitably, should accuse (the chiefs) by
saying: "This man is the slayer of a Brdhman and also the adulterer
of a Brdhman woman."

A spy, under the guise of an astrologer, may describe to a

544
Kautilya's Arthashastra

chief the destiny of a maiden who is at the point of being married to
another, and say: "This man's daughter deserves to be the wife of a
king and will bring forth a son, destined to be a king; purchase her
with all your wealth, or seize her by force.” When it is not possible
to secure her, spies should enrage the parties; but when she is
secured, quarrel will necessarily ensue.

A mendicant woman may tell a chief who is fond of his wife:
"This (another) chief, proud of his youth, has sent me to entice your
wife; being afraid of him, I have taken with me his letter and
jewellery (for your wife); your wife: is free from sin; secret steps
should be taken against him; and I am very anxious (about your
success).”

Thus in these and other kinds of brawls which have originated
of themselves or which have been brought about by spies, the
conqueror should help the inferior party with men and money and
set them against the wicked or cause them to migrate (to other parts
of the country).

Thus he should live as the only monarch of all the
corporations; the corporations also, under the protection of such a
single monarch, should guard themselves against all kinds of
treachery.

* The chief of corporations should endear himself to all the
people by leading a virtuous life, by controlling his passions, and
by pursuing that course of action which is liked by all those who
are his followers.

[Thus ends Chapter I, "Causes of Dissension, and Secret
Punishment,” in Book XI, "The Conduct of Corporations,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirtyfifth chapter
from the beginning. With this ends the eleventh Book, "The

545
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Conduct of Corporations,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 455-459.

546
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book XII, "Concerning a Powerful

Enemy”
CHAPTER I. THE DUTIES OF A MESSENGER.

WHEN a king of poor resources is attacked by a powerful
enemy, he should surrender himself together with his sons to the
enemy and live like a reed (in the midst of a current of water).

Bhdradvdja says that he who surrenders himself to the strong,
bows down before Indra (the god of rain).

But Visdldksha says that a weak king should rather fight with
all his resources, for bravery destroys all troubles; this (fighting) is
the natural duty of a Kshatriya, no matter whether he achieves
victory or sustains defeat in battle.

No, says Kautilya, he who bows down to all like a crab on the
banks (of a river) lives in despair; whoever goes with his small
army to fight perishes like a man attempting to cross the sea
without a boat. Hence, a weak king should either seek the
protection of a powerful king or maintain himself in an
impregnable fort.

Invaders are of three kinds: a just conqueror, a demon-like
conqueror, and a greedy conqueror.

Of these, the just conqueror is satisfied with mere obeisance.
Hence, a weak king should seek his protection.

Fearing his own enemies, the greedy conqueror is satisfied
with what he can safely gain in land or money. Hence, a weak king
should satisfy such a conqueror with wealth.

547
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The demon-like conqueror satisfies himself not merely by
seizing the land, treasure, sons and wives of the conquered, but by
taking the life of the latter. Hence, a weak king should keep such a
conqueror at a distance by offering him land and wealth.

When any one of these is on the point of rising against a weak
king, the latter should avert the invasion by making a treaty of
peace, or by taking recourse to the battle of intrigue
(mantrayuddha), or by a treacherous fight in the battle-field. He
may seduce the enemy's men either by conciliation or by giving
gifts, and should prevent the treacherous proceedings of his own
men either by sowing the seeds of dissension among them or by
punishing them. Spies, under concealment, may capture the
enemy's fort, country, or camp with the aid of weapons, poison, or
fire. He may harass the enemy's rear on all sides; and he may
devastate the enemy's country through the help of wild tribes. Or he
may set up a scion of the enemy's family or an imprisoned prince to
seize the enemy's territory. When all this mischief has been
perpetrated, a messenger may be sent to the enemy, (to sue for
peace); or he may make peace with the enemy without offending
the latter. If the enemy still continues the march, the weak king
may sue for peace by offering more than one-fourth of his wealth
and army, the payment being made after the lapse of a day and
night.

If the enemy desires to make peace on condition of the weak
king surrendering a portion of this army, he may give the enemy
such of his elephants and cavalry as are uncontrollable or as are
provided with poison; if the enemy desires to make peace on
condition of his surrendering his chief men, he may send over to
the enemy such portion of his army as is full of traitors, enemies
and wild tribes under the command of a trusted officer, so that both
his enemy and his own undesirable army may perish; or he may
provide the enemy with an army composed of fiery spies, taking

548
Kautilya's Arthashastra

care to satisfy his own disappointed men (before sending them over
to the enemy); or he may transfer to the enemy his own faithful and
hereditary army that is capable to hurt the enemy on occasions of
trouble; if the enemy desires to make peace on condition of his
paying certain amount of wealth, he may give the enemy such
precious articles as do not find a purchaser or such raw products as
are of no use in war; if the enemy desires to make peace on
condition of his ceding a part of his land, he should provide the
enemy with that kind of land which he can recover, which is
always at the mercy of another enemy, which possesses no
protective defences, or which can be colonized at considerable cost
of men and money; or he may make peace, surrendering his whole
state except his capital.

* He should so contrive as to make the enemy accept that
which another enemy is likely to carry off by force; and he should
take care more of his person than of his wealth, for of what interest
is perishing wealth?

[Thus ends Chapter I, "The Duties of a Messenger, and Request for
Peace," in Book XII, “Concerning a Powerful Enemy,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and thirty-sixth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. BATTLE OF INTRIGUE.
IF the enemy does not keep peace, he should be told :--

"These kings perished by surrendering themselves to the
aggregate of the six enemies; it is not worthy of you to follow the
lead of these unwise kings; be mindful of virtue and wealth; those

549
Kautilya's Arthashastra

who advise you to brave danger, sin and violation of wealth, are
enemies under the guise of friends; it is danger to fight with men
who are reckless of their own lives; it is sin to cause the loss of life
on both sides; it is violation of wealth to abandon the wealth at
hand and the friend of no mean character (meaning the addresser
himself); that king has many friends whom he will set against you
with the same wealth (that is acquired with your help at my
expense), and who will fall upon you from all sides; that king has
not lost his influence over the Circle of the madhyama and neutral
States; but you have lost that power over them who are, therefore,
waiting for an opportunity to fall upon you; patiently bear the loss
of men and money again; break peace with that friend; then we
shall be able to remove him from that stronghold over which he has
lost his influence. Hence, it is not worthy of you to lend your ear to
those enemies with the face of friends, to expose your real friends
to trouble, to help your enemies to attain success, and to involve
yourself in dangers costing life and wealth.”

If without caring for the advice, the enemy proceeds on his
own way, the weak king should create disaffection among the
enemy's people by adopting such measures as are explained in the
chapters, "The Conduct of Corporations,” and "Enticement of the
enemy by secret contrivances.” He should also make use of fiery
spies and poison. Against what is described as deserving protection
in the chapter, "Safety of his own person,” fiery spies and poisoners
should be employed (in the enemy's court). Keepers of harlots
should excite love in the minds of the leaders of the enemy's army
by exhibiting women endowed with youth and beauty. Fiery spies
should bring about quarrels among them when one or two of them
have fallen in love. In the affray that ensues they should prevail
upon the defeated party to migrate elsewhere or to proceed to help
the master (of the spies) in the invasion undertaken by the latter.

Or to those who have fallen in love, spies, under the guise of

550
Kautilya's Arthashastra

ascetics, may administer poison under the plea that the medical
drugs given to them are capable of securing the object of love.

A spy, under the guise of a merchant, may, under the plea of
winning the love of an immediate maid-servant of the beautiful
queen (of the enemy), shower wealth upon her and then give her
up. A spy in the service of the merchant may give to another spy,
employed as a servant of the maid-servant, some medical drug,
telling the latter that (in order to regain the love of the merchant),
the drug may be applied to the person of the merchant (by the
maid-servant). On her attaining success (the maid-servant) may
inform the queen that the same drug may be applied to the person
of the king (to secure his love), and then change the drug for
poison.

A spy, under the guise of an astrologer, may gradually delude
the enemy's prime minister with the belief that he is possessed of
all the physiognomical characteristics of a king; a mendicant
woman may tell the minister's wife that she has the characteristics
of a queen and that she will bring forth a prince; or a woman,
disguised as the minister's wife, may tell him that, "The king is
troubling me; and an ascetic woman has brought to me this letter
and jewellery.”

Spies, under the guise of cooks, may, under the pretence of
the king's (the enemy's) order, take some covetable wealth (to the
minister) meant for use in an immediate expedition. A spy under
the guise of a merchant may, by some contrivance or other, take
possession of that wealth and inform the minister of the readiness
of all the preparations (for the expedition). Thus by the
employment of one, two, or three of the strategic means, the
ministers of each of the combined enemies may be induced to set
out on the expedition and thus to be away from the inimical kings.

551
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Spies, under the service of the officer in charge of the enemy's
waste lands, may inform the citizens and country people residing in
the enemy's fortified towns of the condition of the officer's
friendship with the people, and say: "The officer in charge of the
waste lands tells the warriors and departmental officers thus:--"The
king has hardly escaped from danger and scarcely returns with life.
Do not hoard up your wealth and thereby create enemies; if so, you
will all be put to death.” When all the people are collected
together, fiery spies may take the citizens out of the town and kill
their leaders, saying: "Thus will be treated those who do not hear
the officer in charge of the waste lands.” On the waste lands under
the charge of the officer, the spies may throw down weapons,
money and ropes bespattered with blood. Then other spies may
spread the news that the officer in charge of the waste lands
destroys the people and plunders them. Similarly, spies may cause
disagreement between the enemy's collector-general and the
people. Addressing the servants of the collector-general in the
centre of the village at night, fiery spies may say: "Thus will be
treated those who subject the people to unjust oppression.” When
the fault of the collector-general or of the officer in charge of the
waste lands is widely known, the spies may cause the people to
slay either of them, and employ in his place one of his family or
one who is imprisoned.

* Spreading the false news of the danger of the enemy, they
(spies) may set fire to the harem, the gates of the town and the
store-house of grains and other things, and slay the sentinels who
are kept to guard them.

[Thus ends Chapter 1I, "The Duties of a Messenger and Battle of
Intrigue," in Book XII, “Concerning a Powerful Enemy,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of “Battle of Intrigue.” End of the
hundred and thirty-seventh chapter from the beginning]

552
Kautilya's Arthashastra

CHAPTER III. SLAYING THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
AND INCITING A CIRCLE OF STATES.

SPIES in the service of the king (the enemy) or of his
courtiers may, under the pretence of friendship, say in the presence
of other friends that the king is angry with the chiefs of infantry,
cavalry, chariots and elephants. When their men are collected
together, fiery spies, having guarded themselves against night
watches, may, under the pretence of the king's (the enemy's) order,
invite the chiefs to a certain house and slay the chiefs when
returning from the house. Other spies in the vicinity may say that it
has been the king's (the enemy's) order to slay them. Spies may also
tell those who have been banished from the country: "This is just
what we foretold; for personal safety, you may go elsewhere.”

Spies may also tell those who have not received what they
requested of the king (the enemy) that the officer in charge of waste
lands has been told by the king: "Such and such a person has
begged of me what he should not demand; I refused to grant his
request; he is in conspiracy with my enemy. So make attempts to
put him down." Then the spies may proceed in their usual way.

Spies may also tell those who have been granted their request
by the king (the enemy) that the officer in charge of waste lands has
been told by the king: "Such and such persons have demanded their
due from me; I have granted them all their requests in order to gain
their confidence. But they are conspiring with my enemy. So make
attempts to put them down.” Then the spies may proceed in their
usual way.

Spies may also tell those who do not demand their due from
the king that the officer in charge of waste lands has been told:
"Such and such persons do not demand their due from me. What

553
Kautilya's Arthashastra

else can be the reason than their suspicion about my knowledge of
their guilt? So make attempts to put them down.” Then the spies
may proceed in their usual way.

This explains the treatment of partisans.

A spy employed as the personal servant of the king (the
enemy) may inform him that such and such ministers of his are
being interviewed by the enemy's servants. When he comes to
believe this, some treacherous persons may be represented as the
messengers of the enemy, specifying as "this is that.”

The chief officers of the army may be induced by offering
land and gold to fall against their own men and secede from the
enemy (their king). If one of the sons of the commander-in-chief is
living near or inside the fort, a spy may tell him: "You are the most
worthy son; still you are neglected; why are you indifferent? Seize
your position by force; otherwise the heir-apparent will destroy

"

you.

Or some one of the family (of the commander-in-chief or the
king), or one who is imprisoned may be bribed in gold and told:
"Destroy the internal strength of the enemy, or a portion of his
force in the border of his country.”

Or having seduced wild tribes with rewards of wealth and
honour, they may be incited to devastate the enemy's country. Or
the enemy's rear-enemy may be told : "I am, as it were, a bridge to
you all; if I am broken like a rafter, this king will drown you all; let
us, therefore, combine and thwart the enemy in his march.”
Accordingly, a message may be sent to individual or combined
states to the effect : "After having done with me, this king will do
his work of you: beware of it. I am the best man to be relied upon.”

554
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* In order to escape from the danger from an immediate

enemy, a king should frequently send to a madhyama or a neutral
king (whatever would please him); or one may put one's whole
property at the enemy's disposal.
[Thus ends Chapter III, "Slaying the Commander-in-Chief and
Inciting a Circle of States,” in Book XII, “Concerning a Powerful
Enemy,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
thirty-eighth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IV. SPIES WITH WEAPONS, FIRE, AND
POISON; AND DESTRUCTION OF SUPPLY, STORES
AND GRANARIES.

THE conqueror's spies who are residing as traders in the
enemy's forts, and those who are living as cultivators in the
enemy's villages, as well as those who are living as cowherds or
ascetics in the district borders of the enemy's country may send
through merchants, information to another neighbouring enemy, or
a wild chief, or a scion of the enemy's family, or an imprisoned
prince that the enemy's country is to be captured. When their secret
emissaries come as invited, they are to be pleased with rewards of
wealth and honour and shewn the enemy's weak points; and with
the help of the emissaries, the spies should strike the enemy at his
weak points.

Or having put a banished prince in the enemy's camp; a spy
disguised as a vintner in the service of the enemy, may distribute as
a toast hundreds of vessels of liquor mixed with the juice of the
madana plant; or, for the first day, he may distribute a mild or
intoxicating variety of liquor, and on the following days such
liquor as is mixed with poison; or having given pure liquor to the

555
Kautilya's Arthashastra

officers of the enemy's army, he may give them poisoned liquor
when they are in intoxication.

A spy, employed as a chief officer of the enemy's army, may
adopt the same measures as those employed by the vintner.

Spies, disguised as experts in trading in cooked flesh, cooked
rice, liquor, and cakes, may vie with each other in proclaiming in
public the sale of a fresh supply of their special articles at cheap
price and may sell the articles mixed with poison to the attracted
customers of the enemy.

Women and children may receive in their poisoned vessels,
liquor, milk, curd, ghee, or oil from traders in those articles, and
pour those fluids back into the vessels of the traders, saying that at
a specified rate the whole may be sold to them. Spies, disguised as
merchants, may purchase the above articles, and may so contrive
that servants, attending upon the elephants and horses of the
enemy, may make use of the same articles in giving rations and
grass to those animals. Spies, under the garb of servants, may sell
poisoned grass and water. Spies, let off as traders in cattle for a
long time, may leave herds of cattle, sheep, or goats in tempting
places so as to divert the attention of the enemy from the attack
which they (the enemy) intend to make; spies as cowherds may let
off such animals as are ferocious among horses, mules, camels,
buffaloes and others beasts, having smeared the eyes of those
animals with the blood of a musk-rat (chuchundari); spies as
hunters may let off cruel beasts from traps; spies as snake charmers
may let off highly poisonous snakes; those who keep elephants
may let off elephants (near the enemy's camp); those who live by
making use of fire may set fire (to the camp, etc.). Secret spies may
slay from behind the chiefs of infantry, cavalry, chariots and
elephants, or they may set fire to the chief residences of the enemy.
Traitors, enemies and wild tribes, employed for the purpose, may

556
Kautilya's Arthashastra

destroy the enemy's rear or obstruct his reinforcement; or spies,
concealed in forests, may enter into the border of the enemy's
country, and devastate it; or they may destroy the enemy's supply,
stores, and other things, when those things are being conveyed on a
narrow path passable by a single man.

Or in accordance with a preconcerted plan, they may, on the
occasion of a night-battle, go to the enemy's capital, and blowing a
large number of trumpets, cry aloud: "We have entered into the
capital, and the country has been conquered.” After entering into
the king's (the enemy's) palace, they may kill the king in the tumult;
when the king begins to run from one direction to another,
Mlechchhas, wild tribes, or chiefs of the army, lying in ambush
(sattra), or concealed near a pillar or a fence, may slay him; or
spies, under the guise of hunters, may slay the king when he is
directing his attack, or in the tumult of attack following the plan of
treacherous fights. Or occupying an advantageous position, they
may slay the enemy when he is marching in a narrow path passable
by a single man, or on a mountain, or near the trunk of a tree, or
under the branches of a banian tree, or in water; or they may cause
him to be carried off by the force of a current of water let off by the
destruction of a dam across a river, or of a lake or pond; or they
may destroy him by means of an explosive fire or poisonous snake
when he has entrenched himself in a fort, in a desert, in a forest, or
in a valley. He should be destroyed with fire when he is under a
thicket; with smoke when he is in a desert; with poison when he is
in a comfortable place; with crocodile and other cruel beasts when
he is in water; or they may slay him when he is going out of his
burning house.

* By means of such measures as are narrated in the chapter,
"Enticement of the Enemy by Secret Means" or by any other
measures, the enemy should be caught hold of in places to which
he is confined or from which he is attempting to escape.

557
Kautilya's Arthashastra

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "Spies with Weapons, Fire and Poison; and
Destruction of Supply, Stores and Granaries,” in Book XII,
“Concerning a Powerful Enemy,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.
End of the hundred and thirty-ninth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER V. CAPTURE OF THE ENEMY BY MEANS OF
SECRET CONTRIVANCES OR BY MEANS OF THE
ARMY; AND COMPLETE VICTORY.

CONTRIVANCES to kill the enemy may be formed in those
places of worship and visit, which the enemy, under the influence
of faith, frequents on occasions of worshipping gods, and of
pilgrimage.

A wall or a stone, kept by mechanical contrivance, may, by
loosening the fastenings, be let to fall on the head of the enemy
when he has entered into a temple; stones and weapons may be
showered over his head from the topmost storey; or a door-panel
may be let to fall; or a huge rod kept over a wall or partly attached
to a wall may be made to fall over him; or weapons kept inside the
body of an idol may be thrown over his head; or the floor of those
places where he usually stands, sits, or walks may be be sprinkled
with poison mixed with cow-dung or with pure water; or under the
plea of giving him flowers, scented powders, or of causing scented
smoke, he may be poisoned; or by removing the fastenings made
under a cot or a seat, he may be made to fall into a pit containing
pointed spears; or when he is eager to escape from impending
imprisonment in his own country, he may be led away to fall into
the hands of a wild tribe or an enemy waiting for him not far from
his country; or when he is eager to get out of his castle he may be
like-wise misled or made to enter an enemy's country which is to

558
Kautilya's Arthashastra

be restored (to the conqueror); the enemy's people should also be
kept under the protection of sons and brothers (of the conqueror) in
some forts on a mountain, or in a forest, or in the midst of a river
separated from the enemy's country by wild tracts of lands.

Measures to obstruct the movements of the enemy are
explained in the chapter, "The Conduct of a Conquered King."

Grass and firewood should be set on fire as far as a yojana (5
5/44 miles); water should be vitiated and caused to flow away;
mounds, wells, pits and thorns (outside the fort wall) should be
destroyed; having widened the mouth of the underground tunnel of
the enemy's fort, his stores and leaders may be removed; the enemy
may also be likewise carried off; when the underground tunnel has
been made by the enemy for his own use, the water in the ditch
outside the fort may be made to flow into it; in suspicious places
along the parapet (of the enemy's fort) and in the house containing
a well outside the fort, empty pots or bronze vessels may be placed
in order to find out the direction of the wind (blowing from the
underground tunnel); when the direction of the tunnel is found out,
a counter-tunnel may be formed; or having opened the tunnel, it
may be filled with smoke or water.

Having arranged for the defence of the fort by a scion of his
family, the enemy may run in an opposite direction where it is
possible for him to meet with friends, relatives, or wild tribes, or
with his enemy's treacherous friends of vast resources, or where he
may separate his enemy from the latter's friends, or where he may
capture the enemy's rear, or country, or where he may prevent the
transport of supplies to his enemy, or whence he may strike his
enemy by throwing down trees at hand, or where he can find means
to defend his own country or to gather reinforcements for his
hereditary army; or he may go to any other country whence he can
obtain peace on his own terms.

559
Kautilya's Arthashastra

His enemy's (the conqueror’s) allies may send a mission to
him, saying: "This man, your enemy, has fallen into our hands;
under the plea of merchandise or some presentation, send gold and
a strong force; we shall either hand over to you your enemy bound
in chains, or banish him." If he approves of it, the gold and the
army he may send may be received (by the conqueror).

Having access to the enemy's castle, the officer in charge of
the boundaries (of the enemy's country) may lead a part of his force
and slay the enemy in good faith under the plea of destroying a
people in some place, he may take the enemy to an inimical army;
and having led the enemy to the surrounded place, he may slay the
enemy in good faith.

A pretending friend may send information to an outsider:
"Grains, oil and jaggery and salt stored in the fort (of the enemy)
have been exhausted; a fresh supply of them is expected to reach
the fort at such and such a place and time; seize it by force.” Then
traitors, enemies, or wild tribes, or some other persons, specially
appointed for the purpose, may send a supply of poisoned grains,
oil, jaggery, and salt to the fort. This explains the seizure of all
kinds of supply.

Having made peace with the conqueror, he may give the
conqueror part of the gold promised and the rest gradually. Thus he
may cause the conqueror's defensive force to be slackened and then
strike them down with fire, poison or sword; or he may win the
confidence of the conqueror's courtiers deputed to take the tribute.

Or if his resources are exhausted, he may run away
abandoning his fort; he may escape through a tunnel or through a
hole newly made or by breaking the parapet.

Or having challenged the conqueror at night, he may

560
Kautilya's Arthashastra

successfully confront the attack; if he cannot do this, he may run
away by a side path; or disguised as a heretic, he may escape with a
small retinue; or he may be carried off by spies as a corpse; or
disguised as a woman, he may follow a corpse (as it were, of her
husband to the cremation ground); or on the occasion of feeding
the people in honour of gods or of ancestors or in some festival, he
may make use of poisoned rice and water, and having conspired
with his enemy's traitors, he may strike the enemy with his
concealed army; or when he is surrounded in his fort, he may lie
concealed in a hole bored into the body of an idol after eating
sacramental food and setting up an altar; or he may lie in a secret
hole in a wall, or in a hole made in the body of an idol in an
underground chamber; and when he is forgotten, he may get out of
his concealment through a tunnel, and, entering into the palace,
slay his enemy while sleeping, or loosening the fastenings of a
machine (yantra), he may let it fall on his enemy; or when his
enemy is lying in a chamber which is besmeared with poisonous
and explosive substances or which is made of lac, he may set fire to
it. Fiery spies, hidden in an underground chamber, or in a tunnel, or
inside a secret wall, may slay the enemy when the latter is
carelessly amusing himself in a pleasure park or any other place of
recreation; or spies under concealment may poison him; or women
under concealment may throw a snake, or poison, or fire or
poisonous smoke over his person when he is asleep in confined
place; or spies, having access to the enemy's harem, may, when
opportunities occur, do to the enemy whatever is found possible on
the occasion, and then get out unknown. On such occasions, they
should make use of the signs indicative of the purpose of their
society.

* Having by means of trumpet sounds called together the
sentinels at the gate as well as aged men and other spies stationed
by others, the enemy may completely carry out the rest of his work.
[Thus ends Chapter V, "Capture of the Enemy by Means of Secret

561
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Contrivances or by Means of the Army; and Complete Victory," in
Book XII, "Concerning a Powerful Enemy,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and fortieth chapter from the
beginning. With this ends the twelfth Book, “Concerning a
Powerful Enemy,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 461-474.

562
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book XIII, "Strategic Means to
Capture a Fortress”

CHAPTER I. SOWING THE SEEDS OF DISSENSION.

WHEN the conqueror is desirous of seizing an enemy's
village, he should infuse enthusiastic spirit among his own men
and frighten his enemy's people by giving publicity to his power of
omniscience and close association with gods.

Proclamation of his omniscience is as follows:--rejection of
his chief officers when their secret, domestic and other private
affairs are known; revealing the names of traitors after receiving
information from spies specially employed to find out such men;
pointing out the impolitic aspect of any course of action suggested
to him; and pretensions to the knowledge of foreign affairs by
means of his power to read omens and signs invisible to others
when information about foreign affairs is just received through a
domestic pigeon which has brought a sealed letter.

Proclamation of his association with gods is as
follows:--Holding conversation with, and worshipping, the spies
who pretend to be the gods of fire or altar when through a tunnel
they come to stand in the midst of fire, altar, or in the interior of a
hollow image; holding conversation with, and worshipping, the
spies who rise up from water and pretend to be the gods and
goddesses of Ndgas (snakes); placing under water at night a mass
of sea-foam mixed with burning oil, and exhibiting it as the
spontaneous outbreak of fire, when it is burning in a line; sitting on
a raft in water which is secretly fastened by a rope to a rock; such
magical performance in water as is usually done at night by bands

563
Kautilya's Arthashastra

of magicians, using the sack of abdomen or womb of water animals
to hide the head and the nose, and applying to the nose the oil,
prepared from the entrails of red spotted deer and the serum of the
flesh of the crab, crocodile, porpoise and otter; holding
conversation, as though, with women of Varuna (the god of water),
or of Ndga (the snake-god) when they are performing magical
tricks in water; and sending out volumes of smoke from the mouth
on occasions of anger.

Astrologers,  sooth-sayers,  horologists,  story-tellers,
(Paurdnika), as well as those who read the forebodings of every
moment, together with spies and their disciples, inclusive of those
who have witnessed the wonderful performances of the conqueror
should give wide publicity to the power of the king to associate
with gods throughout his territory. Likewise in foreign countries,
they should spread the news of gods appearing before the
conqueror and of his having received from heaven weapons and
treasure. Those who are well versed in horary and astrology and the
science of omens should proclaim abroad that the conqueror is a
successful expert in explaining the indications of dreams and in
understanding the language of beasts and birds. They should not
only attribute the contrary to his enemy, but also show to the
enemy's people the shower of firebrand (ulkd) with the noise of
drums (from the sky) on the day of the birth-star of the enemy.

The conqueror’s chief messengers, pretending to be friendly
towards the enemy, should highly speak of the conqueror’s
respectful treatment of visitors, of the strength of his army, and of
the likelihood of impending destruction of his enemy's men. They
should also make it known to the enemy that under their master,
both ministers and soldiers are equally safe and happy, and that
their master treats his servants with parental care in their weal or
woe.

564
Kautilya's Arthashastra

By these and other means, they should win over the enemy's
men as pointed out above, and as we are going to treat of them
again at length:--

They should characterise the enemy as an ordinary donkey
towards skilful persons; as the branch of lakucha (Artocarpus
Lacucha) broken to the officers of his army; as a crab on the shore
to anxious persons; as a downpour of lightnings to those who are
treated with contempt; as a reed, a barren tree, or an iron ball, or as
false clouds to those who are disappointed; as the ornaments of an
ugly woman to those who are disappointed in spite of their
worshipful service; as a tiger's skin, or as a trap of death to his
favourites; and as eating a piece of the wood of pilu
(Careya-Arborea), or as churning the milk of a she-camel or a
she-donkey (for butter) to those who are rendering to him valuable
help.

When the people of the enemy are convinced of this, they
may be sent to the conqueror to receive wealth and, honour. Those
of the enemy who are in need of money and food should be
supplied with an abundance of those things. Those who do not like
to receive such things may be presented with ornaments for their
wives and children.

When the people of the enemy are suffering from famine and
the oppression of thieves and wild tribes, the conqueror's spies
should sow the seeds of dissension among them, saying: "Let us
request the king for favour and go elsewhere if not favoured.”

* When they agree to such proposals, they should be supplied
with money, grains, and other necessary help: thus, much can be
done by sowing the seeds of dissension.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “Sowing the Seeds of Dissension,” in Book
565
Kautilya's Arthashastra

XIII, “Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress” of the Arthasdstra, of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-first chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER II. ENTICEMENT OF KINGS BY SECRET
CONTRIVANCES.

AN ascetic, with shaved head or braided hair and living in the
cave of a mountain, may pretend to be four hundred years old, and,
followed by a number of disciples with braided hair, halt in the
vicinity of the capital city of the enemy. The disciples of the ascetic
may make presentations of roots and fruits to the king and his
ministers and invite them to pay a visit to the venerable ascetic. On
the arrival of the king on the spot, the ascetic may acquaint him
with the history of ancient kings and their states, and tell him:
"Every time when I complete the course of a hundred years, I enter
into the fire and come out of it as a fresh youth (bdla). Now, here in
your presence, I am going to enter into the fire for the fourth time.
It is highly necessary that you may be pleased to honour me with
your presence at the time. Please request three boons.” When the
king agrees to do so, he may be requested to come and remain at
the spot with his wives and children for seven nights to witness the
sacrificial performance. When he does so, he may be caught hold
of.

An ascetic, with shaved head or braided hair, and followed by
a number of disciples with shaved heads or braided hair, and
pretending to be aware of whatever is contained in the interior of
the earth, may put in the interior of an ant-hill either a bamboo stick
wound round with a piece of cloth drenched in blood and painted
with gold dust, or a hollow golden tube into which a snake can

566
Kautilya's Arthashastra

enter and remain. One of the disciples may tell the king: "This
ascetic can discover blooming treasure trove.” When he asks the
ascetic (as to the veracity of the statement), the latter should
acknowledge it, and produce a confirmatory evidence (by pulling
out the bamboo stick); or having kept some more gold in the
interior of the ant-hill, the ascetic may tell the king: "This treasure
trove is guarded by a snake and can possibly be taken out by
performing necessary sacrifice. When the king agrees to do so, he
may be requested to come and remain. . . (as before).

When an ascetic, pretending to be able to find out hidden
treasure trove, is seated with his body burning with magical fire at
night in a lonely place, his disciples may bring the king to see him
and inform the king that the ascetic can find out treasure trove.
While engaged in performing some work at the request of the king,
the latter may be requested to come and remain at the spot for
seven nights . . . (as before).

An accomplished ascetic may beguile a king by his
knowledge of the science of magic known as jambhaka, and
request him to come and remain . . . (as before).

An accomplished ascetic, pretending to have secured the
favour of the powerful guardian deity of the country, may often
beguile the king's chief ministers with his wonderful performance
and gradually impose upon the king.

Any person, disguised as an ascetic and living under water or
in the interior of an idol entered into through a tunnel or an
underground chamber, may be said by his disciples to be Varuna,
the god of water, or the king of snakes, and shown to the king.
While going to accomplish whatever the king may desire, the latter
may be requested to come and remain . . . (as before.)

567
Kautilya's Arthashastra

An accomplished ascetic, halting in the vicinity of the capital
city, may invite the king to witness the person (of his enemy) when
he comes to witness the invocation of his enemy's life in the image
to be destroyed, he may be murdered in an unguarded place.

Spies, under the, guise of merchants come to sell horses, may
invite the king to examine and purchase any of the animals. While
attentively examining the horses, he may be murdered in the tumult
or trampled down by horses.

Getting into an altar at night in the vicinity of the capital city
of the enemy and blowing through tubes or hollow reeds the fire
contained in a few pots, some fiery spies may shout aloud: "We are
going to eat the flesh of the king or of his ministers; let the worship
of the gods go on.” Spies, under the guise of sooth-sayers and
horologists may spread the news abroad.

Spies, disguised as Nagas (snake-gods and with their body
besmeared with burning oil (tejdnataila), may stand in the centre
of a sacred pool of water or of a lake at night, and sharpening their
iron swords or spikes, may shout aloud as before.

Spies, wearing coats formed of the skins of bears and sending
out volumes of smoke from their mouth, may pretend to be
demons, and after circumambulating the city thrice from right to
left, may shout aloud as before at a place full of the horrid noise of
antelopes and jackals; or spies may set fire to an altar or an image
of a god covered with a layer of mica besmeared with burning oil at
night, and shout aloud as before. Others may spread this news
abroad; or they may cause (by some contrivance or other) blood to
flow out in floods from revered images of gods. Others may spread
this news abroad and challenge any bold or brave man to come out
to witness this flow of divine blood. Whoever accepts the
challenge may be beaten to death by others with rods, making the
people believe that he was killed by demons. Spies and other

568
Kautilya's Arthashastra

witnesses may inform the king of this wonder. Then spies,
disguised as sooth-sayers and astrologers may prescribe auspicious
and expiatory rites to avert the evil consequences which would
otherwise overtake the king and his country. When the king agrees
to the proposal he may be asked to perform in person special
sacrifices and offerings with special mantras every night for seven
days. Then (while doing this, he may be slain) as before.

In order to delude other kings, the conqueror may himself
undertake the performance of expiatory rites to avert such evil
consequences as the above and thus set an example to others.

In view of averting the evil consequences of unnatural
occurrences, he (the conqueror) may collect money (from his
subjects).

When the enemy is fond of elephants, spies may delude him
with the sight of a beautiful elephant reared by the officer in charge
of elephant forests. When he desires to capture the elephant, he
may be taken to a remote desolate part of the forest, and killed or
carried off as a prisoner. This explains the fate of kings addicted to
hunting.

When the enemy is fond of wealth or women, he may be
beguiled at the sight of rich and beautiful widows brought before
him with a plaint for the recovery of a deposit kept by them in the
custody of one of their kinsmen; and when he comes to meet with a
woman at night as arranged, hidden spies may kill him with
weapons or poison.

When the enemy is in the habit of paying frequent visits to
ascetics, altars, sacred pillars (stipa), and images of gods, spies
hidden in underground chambers or in subterranean passages, or
inside the walls, may strike him down.

569
Kautilya's Arthashastra

* Whatever may be the sights or spectacles which the king goes in
person to witness; wherever he may engage himself in sports or in
swimming in water;

* Wherever he may be careless in uttering such words of rebuke as
"Tut" or on the occasions of sacrificial performance or during the
accouchement of women or at the time of death or disease (of some
person in the palace), or at the time of love, sorrow, or fear;

* Whatever may be the festivities of his own men, which the king
goes to attend, wherever he is unguarded or during a cloudy day, or
in the tumultuous concourse of people;

* Or in an assembly of Brdhmans, or whenever he may go in
person to see the outbreak of fire, or when, he is in a lonely place,
or when he is putting on dress or ornaments, or garlands of flower,
or when he is lying in his bed or sitting on a seat;

* Or when he is eating or drinking, on these and other occasions,
spies, together with other persons previously hidden at those
places, may strike him down at the sound of trumpets.

* And they may get out as secretly as they came there with the
pretence of witnessing the sights; thus it is that kings and other
persons are enticed to come out and be captured.

[Thus ends Chapter II, "Enticement of Kings by Secret
Contrivances,” in Book XIII, "Strategic means to Capture a
Fortress," of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and
forty-second chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER III. THE WORK OF SPIES IN A SIEGE.

THE conqueror may dismiss a confidential chief of a
corporation. The chief may go over to the enemy as a friend and

570
Kautilya's Arthashastra

offer to supply him with recruits and other help collected from the
conquerors territory or followed by a band of spies, the chief may
please the enemy by destroying a disloyal village or a regiment or
an ally of the conqueror and by sending as a present the elephants,
horses, and disaffected persons of the conqueror's army or of the
latter's ally; or a confidential chief officer of the conqueror may
solicit help from a portion of the territory (of the enemy), or from a
corporation of people (sreni) or from wild tribes; and when he has
gained their confidence, he may send them down to the conqueror
to be routed down on the occasion of a farcical attempt to capture
elephants or wild tribes.

This explains the work of ministers and wild chiefs under the
mission of the conqueror.

After making peace with the enemy, the conqueror may
dismiss his own confidential ministers. They may request the
enemy to reconcile them to their master. When the enemy sends a
messenger for this purpose, the conqueror may rebuke him and
say: "Thy master attempts to sow the seeds of dissension between
myself and my ministers; so thou should not come here again.”
Then one of the dismissed ministers may go over to the enemy,
taking with him a band of spies, disaffected people, traitors, brave
thieves, and wild tribes who make no distinction between a friend
and a foe. Having secured the good graces of the enemy, the
minister may propose to him the destruction of his officers, such as
the boundary-guard, wild chief, and commander of his army,
telling him: "These and other persons are in concert with your
enemy.” Then these persons may be put to death under the
unequivocal orders of the enemy.

The conqueror may tell his enemy: "A chief with a powerful
army means to offend us, so let us combine and put him down; you
may take possession of his treasury or territory.” When the enemy
agrees to the proposal and comes out honoured by the conqueror,

571
Kautilya's Arthashastra

he may be slain in a tumult or in an open battle with the chief (in
concert with the conqueror). Or having invited the enemy to be
present as a thick friend on the occasion of a pretended gift of
territory, or the installation of the heir-apparent, or the performance
of some expiatory rites, the conqueror may capture the enemy.
Whoever withstands such inducements may be slain by secret
means. If the enemy refuses to meet any man in person, then also
attempts may be made to kill him by employing his enemy. If the
enemy likes to march alone with his army, but not in company with
the conqueror, then he may be hemmed in between two forces and
destroyed. If, trusting to none, he wants to march alone in order to
capture a portion of the territory of an assailable enemy, then he
may be slain by employing one of his enemies or any other person
provided with all necessary help. When he goes to his subdued
enemy for the purpose of collecting an army, his capital may be
captured. Or he may be asked to take possession of the territory of
another enemy or a friend of the conqueror; and when he goes to
seize the territory, the conqueror may ask his (the conqueror's)
friend to offend him (the conqueror), and then enable the friend to
catch hold of the enemy. These and other contrivances lead to the
same end.

When the enemy is desirous of taking possession of the
territory of the conqueror’s friend, then the conqueror may, under
the pretence of compliance, supply the enemy with army. Then
having entered into a secret concert with the friend, the conqueror
may pretend to be under troubles and allow himself to be attacked
by the enemy combined with the neglected friend. Then, hemmed
from two sides, the enemy may be killed or captured alive to
distribute his territory among the conqueror and his friend.

If the enemy, helped by his friend, shuts himself in an
impregnable fort, then his neighbouring enemies may be employed
to lay waste his territory. If he attempts to defend his territory by

572
Kautilya's Arthashastra

his army, that army may be annihilated. If the enemy and his ally
cannot be separated, then each of these may be openly asked to
come to an agreement with the conqueror to seize the territory of
the other. Then they will, of course, send such of their messengers
as are termed friends and recipients of salaries from two states to
each other with information: "This king (the conqueror), allied
with my army, desires to seize thy territory.” Then one of them
may, with enragement and suspicion, act as before (i.e., fall upon
the conqueror or the friend).

The conqueror may dismiss his chief officers in charge of his
forests, country parts, and army, under the pretence of their
intrigue with the enemy. Then going over to 'the enemy, they may
catch hold of him on occasions of war, siege, or any other troubles;
or they may sow the seeds of dissension between the enemy and his
party, corroborating the causes of dissension by producing
witnesses specially tutored.

Spies, disguised as hunters, may take a stand near the gate of
the enemy's fort to sell flesh, and make friendship with the
sentinels at the gate. Having informed the enemy of the arrival of
thieves on two or three occasions, they may prove themselves to be
of reliable character and cause him to split his army into two
divisions and to station them in two different parts of his territory.
When his villages are being plundered or besieged, they may tell
him that thieves are come very near, that the tumult is very great,
and that a large army is required. They may take the army supplied,
and surrendering it to the commander laying waste the villages,
return at night with a part of the commander's army, and cry aloud
at the gate of the fort that the thieves are slain, that the army has
returned victorious, and that the gate may be opened. When the
gate is opened by the watchmen under the enemy’s order or by
others in confidence, they may strike the enemy with the help of
the army.

573
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Painters, carpenters, heretics, actors, merchants, and other
disguised spies belonging to the conqueror's army may also reside
inside the fort of the enemy. Spies, disguised as agriculturists, may
supply them with weapons taken in carts loaded with firewood,
grass, grains, and other commodities of commerce, or disguised as
images and flags of gods. Then spies, disguised as priests, may
announce to the enemy, blowing their conch shells and beating
their drums, that a besieging army, eager to destroy all, and armed
with weapons, is coming closely behind them. Then in the ensuing
tumult, they may surrender the fort-gate and the towers of the fort
to the army of the conqueror or disperse the enemy’s army and
bring about his fall.

Or taking advantage of peace and friendship with the enemy,
army and weapons may be collected inside the enemy's fort by
spies disguised as merchants, caravans, processions leading a
bride, merchants selling horses, peddlers trading in miscellaneous
articles, purchasers or sellers of grains, and as ascetics. These and
others are the spies aiming on the life of a king.

The same spies, together with those described in "Removal of
thorns” may, by employing thieves, destroy the flock of the
enemy's cattle or merchandise in the vicinity of wild tracts. They
may poison with the juice of the madana plant, the food-stuffs and
beverage kept, as previously arranged, in a definite place for the
enemy's cowherds, and go out unknown. When the cowherds show
signs of intoxication in consequence of their eating the above
food-stuffs, spies, disguised as cowherds, merchants, and thieves,
may fall upon the enemy's cowherds, and carry off the cattle.

Spies disguised as ascetics with shaved head or braided hair
and pretending to be the worshippers of god, Sankarshana, may
mix their sacrificial beverage with the juice of the madana plant
(and give it to the cowherds), and carry off the cattle.

574
Kautilya's Arthashastra

A spy, under the guise of a vintner, may, on the occasion of
procession of gods, funeral rites, festivals, and other congregations
of people, go to sell liquor and present the cowherds with some
liquor mixed with the juice of the madana plant. Then others may
fall upon the intoxicated cowherds (and carry off the cattle).

* Those spies, who enter into the wild tracts of the enemy
with the intention of plundering his villages, and who, leaving that
work, set themselves to destroy the enemy, are termed spies under
the garb of thieves.

[Thus ends Chapter III, “The Work of Spies in a Siege,” in Book
XIII, “The Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-third chapter
from the beginning.]

CHAPTER IV. THE OPERATION OF A SIEGE.

REDUCTION (of the enemy) must precede a siege. The
territory that has been conquered should be kept so peacefully that
it might sleep without any fear. When it is in rebellion, it is to be
pacified by bestowing re-wards and remitting taxes, unless the
conqueror means to quit it. Or he may select his battle fields in a
remote part of the enemy's territory, far from the populous centres;
for, in the opinion of Kautilya, no territory deserves the name of a
kingdom or country unless it is full of people. When a people resist
the attempt of the conqueror, then he may destroy their stores,
crops, and granaries, and trade.

* By the destruction of trade, agricultural produce, and
standing crops, by causing the people to run away, and by slaying

575
Kautilya's Arthashastra

their leaders in secret, the country will be denuded of its people.

When the conqueror thinks: "My army is provided with
abundance of staple corn, raw materials, machines, weapons, dress,
labourers, ropes and the like, and has a favourable season to act,
whereas my enemy has an unfavourable season and is suffering
from disease, famine and loss of stores and defencive force, while
his hired troops as well as the army of his friend are in a miserable
condition,"--then he may begin the siege.

Having well guarded his camp, transports, supplies and also
the roads of communication, and having dug up a ditch and raised a
rampart round his camp, he may vitiate the water in the ditches
round the enemy's fort, or empty the ditches of their water or fill
them with water if empty, and then he may assail the rampart and
the parapets by making use of underground tunnels and iron rods.
If the ditch (dvdram) is very deep, he may fill it up with soil. If it is
defended by a number of men, he may destroy it by means of
machines. Horse soldiers may force their passage through the gate
into the fort and smite the enemy. Now and then in the midst of
tumult, he may offer terms to the enemy by taking recourse to one,
two, three, or all of the strategic means.

Having captured the birds such as the vulture, crow, naptri,
bhdsa, parrot, mdina, and pigeon which have their nests in the
fort-walls, and having tied to their tails inflammable powders
(agniyoga), he may let them fly to the forts. If the camp is situated
at a distance from the fort and is provided with an elevated post for
archers and their flags, then the enemy's fort may be set on fire.
Spies, living as watchmen of the fort, may tie inflammable powder
to the tails of mongooses, monkeys, cats and dogs and let them go
over the thatched roofs of the houses. A splinter of fire kept in the
body of a dried fish may be caused to be carried off by a monkey,
or a crow, or any other bird (to the thatched roofs of the houses).

576
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Small balls prepared from the mixture of sarala (Pinus
Longifolia), devaddru (deoddr), piititrina (stinking grass), guggulu
(Bdellium), sriveshtaka (turpentine), the juice of sarja (Vatica
Robusta), and ldksha (lac) combined with dungs of an ass, camel,
sheep, and goat are inflammable (agnidharanah, i.e., such as keep
fire.)

The mixture of the powder of priyala (Chironjia Sapida), the
charcoal of avalguja (oanyza, serratula, anthelmintica),
madhiichchhishta (wax), and the dung of a horse, ass, camel, and
cow is an inflammable powder to be hurled against the enemy.

The powder of all the metals (sarvaloha) as red as fire, or the
mixture of the powder of kumbhi (gmelia arberea, sisa (lead),
trapu (zinc), mixed with the charcoal powder of the flowers of
pdribhadraka (deodar), paldsa (Butea Frondosa), and hair, and
with oil, wax, and turpentine, is also an inflammable powder.

A stick of visvdsaghdti painted with the above mixture and
wound round with a bark made of hemp, zinc, and lead, is a
fire-arrow (to be hurled against the enemy).

When a fort can be captured by other means, no attempt
should be made to set fire to it; for fire cannot be trusted; it not only
offends gods, but also destroys the people, grains, cattle, gold, raw
materials and the like. Also the acquisition of a fort with its
property all destroyed is a source of further loss. Such is the aspect
of a siege.

When the conqueror thinks: "I am well provided with all
necessary means and with workmen whereas my enemy is diseased
with officers proved to be impure under temptations, with
unfinished forts and deficient stores, allied with no friends, or with
friends inimical at heart,” then he should consider it as an

577
Kautilya's Arthashastra

opportune moment to take up arms and storm the fort.

When fire, accidental or intentionally kindled, breaks out;
when the enemy's people are engaged in a sacrificial performance,
or in witnessing spectacles or the troops, or in a quarrel due to the
drinking of liquor; or when the enemy's army is too much tired by
daily engagements in battles and is reduced in strength in
consequence of the slaughter of a number of its men in a number of
battles; when the enemy's people wearied from sleeplessness have
fallen asleep; or on the occasion of a cloudy day, of floods, or of a
thick fog or snow, general assault should be made.

Or having concealed himself in a forest after abandoning the
camp, the conqueror may strike the enemy when the latter comes
out.

A king pretending to be the enemy's chief friend or ally, may
make the friendship closer with the besieged, and send a messenger
to say: "This is thy weak point; these are thy internal enemies; that
is the weak point of the besieger; and this person (who, deserting
the conqueror, is now coming to thee) is thy partisan.” When this
partisan is returning with another messenger from the enemy, the
conqueror should catch hold of him and, having published the
partisan's guilt, should banish him, and retire from the siege
operations. Then the pretending friend may tell the besieged:
"Come out to help me, or let us combine and strike the besieger.”
Accordingly, when the enemy comes out, he may be hemmed
between the two forces (the conqueror's force and the pretending
friend's force) and killed or captured alive to distribute his territory
(between the conqueror and the friend). His capital city may be
razed to the ground; and the flower of his army made to come out
and destroyed.

This explains the treatment of a conquered enemy or wild
chief.

578
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Either a conquered enemy or the chief of a wild tribe (in
conspiracy with the conqueror) may inform the besieged: "With
the intention of escaping from a disease, or from the attack in his
weak point by his enemy in the rear, or from a rebellion in his
army, the conqueror seems to be thinking of going elsewhere,
abandoning the siege.” When the enemy is made to believe this, the
conqueror may set fire to his camp and retire. Then the enemy
coming out may be hemmed . . . as before.

Or having collected merchandise mixed with poison, the
conqueror may deceive the enemy by sending that merchandise to
the latter.

Or a pretending ally of the enemy may send a messenger to
the enemy, asking him: "Come out to smite the conqueror already
struck by me." When he does so, he may be hemmed . . . as before.

Spies, disguised as friends or relatives and with passports and
orders in their hands, may enter the enemy's fort and help to its
capture.

Or a pretending ally of the enemy may send information to the
besieged: "I am going to strike the besieging camp at such a time
and place; then you should also fight along with me.” When the
enemy does so, or when he comes out of his fort after witnessing
the tumult and uproar of the besieging army in danger, he may be
slain as before.

Or a friend or a wild chief in friendship with the enemy may
be induced and encouraged to seize the land of the enemy when the
latter is besieged by the conqueror. When accordingly any one of
them attempts to seize the enemy's territory, the enemy's people or
the leaders of the enemy's traitors may be employed to murder him
(the friend or the wild chief); or the conqueror himself may

579
Kautilya's Arthashastra

administer poison to him. Then another pretending friend may
inform the enemy that the murdered person was a fratricide (as he
attempted to seize the territory of his friend in troubles). After
strengthening his intimacy with the enemy, the pretending friend
may sow the seeds of dissension between the enemy and his
officers and have the latter hanged. Causing the peaceful people of
the enemy to rebel, he may put them down, unknown to the enemy.
Then having taken with him a portion of his army composed of
furious wild tribes, he may enter the enemy's fort and allow it to be
captured by the conqueror. Or traitors, enemies, wild tribes and
other persons who have deserted the enemy, may, under the plea of
having been reconciled, honoured and rewarded, go back to the
enemy and allow the fort to be captured by the conqueror.

Having captured the fort or having returned to the camp after
its capture, he should give quarter to those of the enemy's army
who, whether as lying prostrate in the field, or as standing with
their back turned to the conqueror, or with their hair dishevelled,
with their weapons thrown down or with their body disfigured and
shivering under fear, surrender themselves. After the captured fort
is cleared of the enemy's partisans and is well guarded by the
conqueror's men both within and without, he should make his
victorious entry into it.

Having thus seized the territory of the enemy close to his
country, the conqueror should direct his attention to that of the
madhyama king; this being taken, he should catch hold of that of
the neutral king. This is the first way to conquer the world. In the
absence of the madhyama and neutral kings, he should, in virtue of
his own excellent qualities, win the hearts of his enemy's subjects,
and then direct his attention to other remote enemies. This is the
second way. In the absence of a Circle of States (to be conquered),
he should conquer his friend or his enemy by hemming each
between his own force and that of his enemy or that of his friend

580
Kautilya's Arthashastra

respectively. This is the third way.

Or he may first put down an almost invincible immediate
enemy. Having doubled his power by this victory, he may go
against a second enemy; having trebled his power by this victory,
he may attack a third. This is the fourth way to conquer the world.

Having conquered the earth with its people of distinct castes
and divisions of religious life, he should enjoy it by governing it in
accordance with the duties prescribed to kings.

* Intrigue, spies, winning over the enemy's people, siege, and
assault are the five means to capture a fort.
[Thus ends Chapter IV, "The Operation of a Siege and Storming a
Fort," in Book XIII, "Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress,” of the
Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-fourth
chapter from the beginning. ]

CHAPTER V. RESTORATION OF PEACE IN A
CONQUERED COUNTRY.

THE expedition which the conqueror has to undertake may be
of two kinds: in wild tracts or in single villages and the like.

The territory which he acquires may be of three kinds: that
which is newly acquired, that which is recovered (from an usurper)
and that which is inherited.

Having acquired a new territory, he should cover the enemy's
vices with his own virtues, and the enemy's virtues by doubling his
own virtues, by strict observance of his own duties, by attending to

581
Kautilya's Arthashastra

his works, by bestowing rewards, by remitting taxes, by giving
gifts, and by bestowing honours. He should follow the friends and
leaders of the people. He should give rewards, as promised, to
those who deserted the enemy for his cause; he should also offer
rewards to them as often as they render help to him; for whoever
fails to fullfil his promises becomes untrustworthy both to his own
and his enemy's people. Whoever acts against the will of the people
will also become unreliable. He should adopt the same mode of
life, the same dress, language, and customs as those of the people.
He should follow the people in their faith with which they celebrate
their national, religious and congregational festivals or
amusements. His spies should often bring home to the mind of the
leaders of provinces, villages, castes, and corporations the hurt
inflicted on the enemies in contrast with the high esteem and
favour with which they are treated by the conqueror, who finds his
own prosperity in theirs. He should please them by giving gifts,
remitting taxes, and providing for their security. He should always
hold religious life in high esteem. Learned men, orators, charitable
and brave persons should be favoured with gifts of land and money
and with remission of taxes. He should release all the prisoners,
and afford help to miserable, helpless, and diseased persons. He
should prohibit the slaughter of animals for half a month during the
period of Chdturmdsya (from July to September), for four nights
during the full moon, and for a night on the day of the birth-star of
the conqueror or of the national star. He should also prohibit the
slaughter of females and young ones (yonibdlavadham) as well as
castration. Having abolished those customs or transactions which
he might consider either as injurious to the growth of his revenue
and army or as unrighteous, he should establish righteous
transactions. He should compel born thieves as well as the
Mlechchhas to change their habitations often and reside in many
places. Such of his chief officers in charge of the forts, country
parts, and the army, and ministers and priests as are found to have
been in conspiracy with the enemy should also be compelled to

582
Kautilya's Arthashastra

have their habitations in different places on the borders of the
enemy's country. Such of his men as are capable to hurt him, but
are convinced of their own fall with that of their master, should be
pacified by secret remonstrance. Such renegades of his own
country as are captured along with the enemy should be made to
reside in remote corners. Whoever of the enemy's family is capable
to wrest the conquered territory and is taking shelter in a wild tract
on the border, often harassing the conqueror, should be provided
with a sterile portion of territory or with a fourth part of a fertile
tract on the condition of supplying to the conqueror a fixed amount
of money and a fixed number of troops, in raising which he may
incur the displeasure of the people and may be destroyed by them.
Whoever has caused excitement to the people or incurred their
displeasure should be removed and placed in a dangerous locality.

Having recovered a lost territory, he should hide those vices
of his, owing to which he lost it, and increase those virtues by
which he recovered it.

With regard to the inherited territory, he should cover the
vices of his father, and display his own virtues.

* He should initiate the observance of all those customs,
which, though righteous and practised by others, are not observed
in his own country, and give no room for the practice of whatever is
unrighteous, though observed by others.

[Thus ends Chapter V, "Restoration of Peace in a Conquered
Country,” in Book XIII, “Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress,”
of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-fifth
chapter from the beginning. With this ends the thirteenth Book
“Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya.]

583
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book XIV, "Secret Means”

CHAPTER I. MEANS TO INJURE AN ENEMY.

IN order to protect the institution of the four castes, such
measures as are treated of in secret science shall be applied against
the wicked. Through the instrumentality of such men or women of
Mlechchha class as can put on disguises, appropriate to different
countries, arts, or professions, or as can put on the appearance of a
hump-backed, dwarfish, or short-sized person, or of a dumb, deaf,
idiot, or blind person, kdlakiita and other manifold poisons should
be administered in the diet and other physical enjoyments of the
wicked. Spies lying in wait or living as inmates (in the same house)
may make use of weapons on occasions of royal sports or musical
and other entertainments. Spies, under the disguise of
night-walkers (rdtrichdri) or of fire-keepers (agni-jivi) may set fire
(to the houses of the wicked).

The powder (prepared from the carcass) of animals such as
chitra (7), bheka (frog), kaundinyaka (7), krikana (perdix
sylvatika), panchakushtha (7), and satapadi, (centipede); or of
animals such as uchchitinga (crab), kambali (7), krikaldsa (lizard)
with the powder of the bark of satakanda (Phyalis Flexuosa); or of
animals such as grihagaulika (a small house-lizard), andhdhika (a
blind snake), krakanthaka (a kind of partridge), pitikita (a stinking
insect), and gomdrika (7) combined with the juice of bhalldtaka
(Semecarpus Anacardium), and valgaka (7);--the smoke caused by
burning the above powders causes instantaneous death.

* Any of the (above) insects may be heated with a black snake
and priyangu (panic seed) and reduced to powder. This mixture,

584
Kautilya's Arthashastra

when burnt, causes instantaneous death.

The powder prepared from the roots of dhdmdrgava (lufta
foetida) and ydtudhdna (7) mixed with the powder of the flower of
bhalldtaka (Semecarpus Anacardium) causes, when administered,
death in the course of half a month. The root of vydghdta (casia
fistula) reduced to powder with the flower of bhalldtaka
(Semecarpus A nacardium) mixed with the essence of an insect
(kita) causes, when administered, death in the course of a month.

As much as a kald (16th of a tola) to men; twice as much to
mules and horses; and four times as much to elephants and camels.

The smoke caused by burning the powder of satakardama (?),
uchchitinga (crab), karavira (nerium odorum), katutumbi (a kind
of bitter gourd), and fish together with the chaff of the grains of
madana (1) and kodrava (paspalam scrobiculatum), or with the
chaff of the seeds of hastikarna (castor oil tree) and paldsa (butea
frondosa) destroys animal life as far as it is carried off by the wind.

The smoke caused by burning the powder of piitikita (a
stinking insect), fish, karutumbi (a kind of bitter gourd), the bark of
satakardama (7), and indragopa (the insect cochineal), or the
powder of piitikita, kshudrdrdla (the resin of the plant, shorea
robusta), and hemaviddri (7) mixed with the powder of the hoof
and horn of a goat causes blindness.

The smoke caused by burning the leaves of piitikaranja
(guilandina bonducella), yellow arsenic, realgar, the seeds of
gunja (abrus precatorius), the chaff of the seeds of red cotton,
dsphota (a plant, careya arborea), khdcha (salt 7), and the dung
and urine of a cow causes blindness.

The smoke caused by burning the skin of a snake, the dung of
a cow and a horse, and the head of a blind snake causes blindness.

585
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The smoke caused by burning the powder made of the
mixture of the dung and urine of pigeons, frogs, flesh-eating
animals, elephants, men, and boars, the chaff and powder of barley
mixed with kdsisa (green sulphate of iron), rice, the seeds of
cotton, kutaja (nerium antidysentericum), and kosdtaki (lufta
pentandra), cow's urine, the root of bhdndi (hydroeotyle asiatica),
the powder of nimba (nimba meria), sigru (hyperanthera
morunga), phanirjaka (a kind of tulasi plant), kshibapiluka (ripe
coreya arborea), and bhidnga (a common intoxicating drug), the
skin of a snake and fish, and the powder of the nails and tusk of an
elephant, all mixed with the chaff of madana and kodravd
(paspalam scrobiculatum), or with the chaff of the seeds of
hastikarna (castor oil tree) and paldsa (butea frondosa) causes
instantaneous death wherever the smoke is carried off by the wind.

When a man who has kept his eyes secure with the application
of ointment and medicinal water burns, on the occasion of the
commencement of a battle and the assailing of forts, the roots of
kdli (tragia involucrata), kushtha (costus), nada (a kind of reed)
and satdvari (asperagus racemosus), or the powder of (the skin of)
a snake, the tail of a peacock, krikana (a kind of partridge), and
panchakushtha (7), together with the chaff as previously described
or with wet or dry chaff, the smoke caused thereby destroys the
eyes of all animals.

The ointment prepared by mixing the excretion of sdrikd
(maina), kapota (pigeon), baka (crane), and baldka (a kind of small
crane) with the milk of kdkshiva (hyperanthera morunga), piluka
(a species of careya arborea) and snuhi (euphorbia) causes
blindness and poisons water.

The mixture of yavaka (a kind of barley), the root of sdla
(achyrantes triandria), the fruit of madana (dartira plant?), the
leaves of jdti (nutmeg?), and the urine of a man mixed with the

586
Kautilya's Arthashastra

powder of the root of plaksha (fig tree), and viddri (liquorice), as
well as the essence of the decoction of musta (a kind of poison),
udumbara (glomerous fig tree), and kodrava (paspalam
scrobiculatum) or with the decoction of hastikarna (castor oil tree)
and paldsa (butea frondosa) is termed the juice of madana
(madanayoga).

The mixture of the powders of sringi (atis betula),
gaumevriksha (7), kantakdra (solanum xanthocarpum), and
maytirapadi (7), the powder of gunja seeds, ldnguli (jusseina
repens), vishamiilika (7), and ingudi (heart-pea), and the powder of
karavira (oleander), akshipiluka (careya arborea), arka plant, and
mrigamdrini (7) combined with the decoction of madana and
kodrava or with that of hastikarna and paldsa is termed madana
mixture (madanayoga).

The combination of (the above two) mixtures poisons grass
and water when applied to them.

The smoke caused by burning the mixture of the powders of
krikana (a kind of partridge), krikaldsa (lizard), grihagaulika (a
small house-lizard) and andhdhika (a blind snake) destroys the
eyes and causes madness.

The (smoke caused by burning the) mixture of krikaldsa and
grihagaulika causes leprosy.

The smoke caused by burning the same mixture together with
the entrails of chitrabheka (a kind of frog of variegated colour),
and madhu (celtis orientalis?) causes gonorrheea.

The same mixture, wetted with human blood causes
consumption.

The powder of diishivisha (7), madana (dattdra plant ?), and

587
Kautilya's Arthashastra

kodrava (paspalam scrobiculatum) destroys the tongue.

The mixture of the powder of mdtrivdhaka (7), jalika (leech),
the tail of a peacock, the eyes of a frog, and pilukd (careya
arborea) causes the disease known as vishichika.

The mixture of panchakushtha (7), kaundinyaka (7),
rdjavriksha (cassia fistula), and madhupushpa (bassia latifolia)
and madhu (honey?) causes fever.

The mixture prepared from the powder of the knot of the
tongue of bhdja (7), and nakula (mongoose) reduced to a paste with
the milk of a she-donkey causes both dumbness and deafness.

The proportion of a dose to bring on the desired deformities in
men and animals in the course of a fortnight or a month is as laid
down before.

Mixtures become very powerful when, in the case of drugs,
they are prepared by the process of decoction; and in the case of
animals, by the process of making powders; or in all cases by the
process of decoction.

Whoever is pierced by the arrow prepared from the grains of
sdlmali (bombax heptaphyllum) and viddri (liquorice) reduced to
powder and mixed with the powder of muilavatsandbha (a kind of
poison) and smeared over with the blood of chuchundari
(musk-rat) bites some ten other persons who in their turn bite
others.

The mixture prepared from the flowers of bhalldtaka
(semecarpus  anacardium), ydtudhdna (7), dhdmdrgava
(achyranthes aspera), and bdna (sal tree) mixed with the powder
of eld (large cardamom), kdkshi (red aluminous earth), guggulu

588
Kautilya's Arthashastra

(bdellium), and hdldhala (a kind of poison) together with the blood
of a goat and a man causes biting madness.

When half a dharana of this mixture together with flour and
oil-cakes is thrown into water of a reservoir measuring a hundred
bows in length, it vitiates the whole mass of water; all the fish
swallowing or touching this mixture become poisonous; and
whoever drinks or touches this water will be poisoned.

No sooner does a person condemned to death pull out from
the earth an alligator or iguana (godhd) which, with three or five
handfuls of both red and white mustard seeds, is entered into the
earth than he dies at its sight.

When, on the days of the stars of krittikd or bharani and
following the method of performing fearful rites, an oblation with a
black cobra emitting froth at the shock of lightning or caught hold
of by means of the sticks of a tree struck by lightning and perfumed
is made into the fire, that fire continues to burn unquenchably.

* An oblation of honey shall be made into the fire fetched from the
house of a blacksmith; of spirituous liquor into the fire brought
from the house of a vintner; of clarified butter into the fire of a
sacrificer (7);

* Of a garland into the fire kept by a sacrificer with one wife; of
mustard seeds into the fire kept by an adulterous woman; of curds
into the fire kept during the birth of a child; of rice-grain into the
fire of a sacrificer;

* Of flesh into the fire kept by a chandala; of human flesh into the
fire burning in cremation grounds; an oblation of the serum of the
flesh of a goat and a man shall be made by means of a sacrificial
ladle into the fire which is made of all the above fires;

* Repeating the mantras addressed to the fire, an oblation of the
wooden pieces of rdjavriksha (cassia fistula) into the same fire.

589
Kautilya's Arthashastra

This fire will unquenchably burn deluding the eyes of the enemies.

Salutation to Aditi, salutation to Anumati, salutation to
Sarasvati and salutation to the Sun; oblation to Agni, oblation to
soma, oblation to the earth, and oblation to the atmosphere.

[Thus ends Chapter I, “Means to Injure an Enemy,” in Book XIV,
“Secret Means,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of the hundred
and forty-sixth chapter from the beginning.]

CHAPTER II. WONDERFUL AND DELUSIVE
CONTRIVANCES.

A DOSE of the powder of sirisha (mimosa sirisa), udumbara
(glomerous fig-tree), and sami (acacia summa) mixed with clarified
butter, renders fasting possible for half a month; the scum prepared
from the mixture of the root of kaseruka (a kind of water-creeper),
utpala (costus), and sugar-cane mixed with bisa (water-lily), diirva
(grass), milk, and clarified butter enables a man to fast for a month.

The powder of mdsha (phraseolus radiatus), yava (barley),
kulurtha (horse-gram) and the root of darbha (sacrificial grass)
mixed with milk and clarified butter; the milk of valli (a kind of
creeper) and clarified butter derived from it and mixed in equal
proportions and combined with the paste prepared from the root of
sdla (shorea robusta) and prisniparni (hedysarum lagopodioides),
when drunk with milk; or a dose of milk mixed with clarified butter
and spirituous liquor, both prepared from the above substances,
enables one to fast for a month.

The oil prepared from mustard seeds previously kept for
seven nights in the urine of a white goat will, when used
(externally) after keeping the oil inside a large bitter gourd for a
month and a half, alter the colour of both biped and quadruped

590
Kautilya's Arthashastra

animals.

The oil extracted from white mustard seeds mixed with the
barley-corns contained in the dung of a white donkey, which has
been living for more than seven nights on a diet of butter, milk and
barley, causes alteration in colour.

The oil prepared from mustard seeds which have been
previously kept in the urine and fluid dung of any of the two
animals, a white goat and a white donkey, causes (when applied)
such white colour as that of the fibre of arka plant or the down of a
(white) bird.

The mixture of the dung of a white cock and ajagara
(boa-constrictor) causes white colour.

The pastry made from white mustard seeds kept for seven
nights in the urine of a white goat mixed with butter-milk, the milk
of arka plant, salt, and grains (dhdnya), causes, when applied for a
fortnight, white colour.

The paste, prepared from white mustard seeds which have
been previously kept within a large bitter gourd and with clarified
butter prepared from the milk of valli (a creeper) for half a month,
makes the hair white.

* A bitter gourd, a stinking insect (pitikita), and a white
house-lizard; when a paste prepared from these is applied to the
hair, the latter becomes as white as a conch-shell.

When any part of the body of a man is rubbed over with the
pastry (kalka) prepared from tinduka (glutinosa) and arishta
(soap-berry), together with the dung of a cow, the part of the body
being also smeared over with the juice of bhalldtaka (semecarpus

591
Kautilya's Arthashastra

anacardium), he will catch leprosy in the course of a month.

(The application of the paste prepared from) gunja seeds kept
previously for seven nights in the mouth of a white cobra or in the
mouth of a house-lizard brings on leprosy.

External application of the liquid essence of the egg of a
parrot and a cuckoo brings on leprosy.

The pastry or decoction prepared from priydla (chironjia
sapida or vitis vinifera 7) is a remedy for leprosy.

Whoever eats the mixture of the powders of the roots of
kukkuta (marsilia dentata), kosdtaki (duffa pentandra), and
satdvari (asparagus racemosus) for a month will become white.

Whoever bathes in the decoction of vata (banyan tree) and
rubs his body with the paste prepared from sahachara (yellow
barleria) becomes black.

Sulphuret of arsenic and red arsenic mixed with the oil
extracted from sakuna (a kind of bird) and kanka (a vulture) causes
blackness.

The powder of khadyota (fire-fly) mixed with the oil of
mustard seeds emits light at night.

The powder of khadyota (fire-fly) and gandipada
(earth-worm) or the powder of ocean animals mixed with the
powder of bhringa (malabathrum), kapdla (a pot-herb), and
khadira (mimosa catechu), and karnikdra (pentapetes acerifolia),
combined with the oil of sakuna (a bird) and kanka (vulture), is
tejanachiirna (ignition powder).

592
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When the body of a man is rubbed over with the powder of the
charcoal of the bark of pdribhadraka (erythrina indica) mixed with
the serum of the flesh of mandiika (a frog), it can be burnt with fire
(without causing hurt).

The body which is painted with the pastry (kalka) prepared
from the bark of pdribhadraka (erythrina indica) and sesamum
seeds burns with fire.

The ball prepared from the powder of the charcoal of the bark
of pilu (careya arborea) can be held in hand and burnt with fire.

When the body of a man is smeared over with the serum of the
flesh of a frog, it burns with fire (with no hurt).

When the body of a man is smeared over with the above
serum as well as with the oil extracted from the fruits of kusa (ficus
religiosa), and 4mra (mango tree), and when the powder prepared
from an ocean frog (samdura mandiiki), phenaka (sea-foam), and
sarjarasa (the juice of vatica robusta) is sprinkled over the body, it
burns with fire (without being hurt).

When the body of a man is smeared over with sesamum oil
mixed with equal quantities of the serum of the flesh of a frog,
crab, and other animals, it can burn with fire (without hurt).

The body which is smeared over with the serum of the flesh of
a frog burns with fire.

The body of a man, which is rubbed over with the powder of
the root of bamboo (venu) and saivdla (aquatic plant), and is
smeared over with the serum of the flesh of a frog, burns with fire.

Whoever has anointed his legs with the oil extracted from the

593
Kautilya's Arthashastra

paste prepared from the roots of pdribhadraka (erythrina indica),
pratibala (7), vanjula (a kind of ratan or tree), vajra (andropogon
muricatum or euphorbia), and kadali (banana), mixed with the
serum of the flesh of a frog, can walk over fire (without hurt).

* Oil should be extracted from the paste prepared from the roots of
pratibala, vanjula and pdribhadraka, all growing near water, the
paste being mixed with the serum of the flesh of a frog.

* Having anointed one's legs with this oil, one can walk over a
white-hot mass of fire as though on a bed of roses.

When birds such as a hamsa (goose), krauncha (heron),
maytira (peacock) and other large swimming birds are let to fly at
night with a burning reed attached to their tail it presents the
appearance of a fire-brand falling from the sky (ulkd).

Ashes caused by lightning quench the fire.

When, in a fireplace, kidney beans (mdsha) wetted with the
menstrual fluid of a woman, as well as the roots of vajra
(andropogon muricatum) and kadali (banana), wetted with the
serum of the flesh of a frog are kept, no grains can be cooked there.

Cleansing the fire place is its remedy.

By keeping in the mouth a ball-like piece of pilu (careya
arberea) or a knot of the root of linseed tree (suvarchala) with fire
inserted within the mass of the ball and wound round with threads
and cotton (pichu), volumes of smoke and fire can be breathed out.

When the oil extracted from the fruits of kusa (ficus religiosa)

and dmra (mango) is poured over the fire, it burns even in the
storm.

594
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Sea-foam wetted with oil and ignited keeps burning when
floating on water.
The fire generated by churning the bone of a monkey by
means of a bamboo stick of white and black colour (kalmdshavenu)
burns in water instead of being quenched.

There will burn no other fire where the fire generated by
churning, by means of a bamboo stick of white and black colour,
the left side rib-bone of a man killed by a weapon or put to the
gallows; or the fire generated by churning the bone of a man or
woman by means of the bone of another man is circumambulated
thrice from right to left.

* When the paste prepared from the animals such as
chuchundari (musk-rat), khanjarita (7) and khdrakita (7), with the
urine of a horse is applied to the chains with which the legs of a
man are bound, they will be broken to pieces.

The sun-stone (ayaskdnta) or any other stone (will break to
pieces) when wetted with the serum of the flesh of the animals
kulinda (7), dardura (7), and khdrakita (7).

The paste prepared from the powder of the rib-bone of ndraka
(7), a donkey, kanka (a kind of vulture), and bhdsa (a bird), mixed
with the juice of water-lily, is applied to the legs of bipeds and
quadrupeds (while making a journey).

When a man makes a journey, wearing the shoes made of the
skin of a camel, smeared over with the serum of the flesh of an owl
and a vulture and covered over with the leaves of the banyan tree,
he can walk fifty yojanas without any fatigue.

(When the shoes are smeared over with) the pith, marrow or
sperm of the birds, syena, kanka, kdka, gridhra, hamsd, krauncha,

595
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and vichiralla, (the traveller wearing them) can walk a hundred
yojanas (without any fatigue).

The fat or serum derived from roasting a pregnant camel
together with saptaparna (lechites scholaris) or from roasting dead
children in cremation grounds, is applied to render a journey of a
hundred yojanas easy.

* Terror should be caused to the enemy by exhibiting these
and other wonderful and delusive performances; while anger
causing terror is common to all, terrification by such wonders is
held as a means to consolidate peace.

[Thus ends Chapter 11, "Wonderful and Delusive Contrivances,” in
Book XIV, "Secret Means,” of the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. End of
the hundred and forty-seventh chapter from the beginning. |

CHAPTER III. THE APPLICATION OF MEDICINES AND
MANTRAS.

HAVING pulled out both the right and the left eye-balls of a
cat, camel, wolf, boar, porcupine, vdguli (7), naptri (7), crow and
owl, or of any one, two, or three, or many of such animals as roam
at nights, one should reduce them to two kinds of powder.
Whoever anoints his own right eye with the powder of the left eye
and his left eye with the powder of the right eye-ball can clearly see
things even in pitch dark at night.

* One is the eye of a boar; another is that of a khadyota
(fire-fly), or a crow, or a mina bird. Having anointed one's own
eyes with the above, one can clearly see things at night.

Having fasted for three nights, one should, on the day of the
star, Pushya, catch hold of the skull of a man who has been killed

596
Kautilya's Arthashastra

with a weapon or put to the gallows. Having filled the skull with
soil and barley seeds, one should irrigate them with the milk of
goats and sheep. Putting on the garland formed of the sprouts of the
above barley crop, one can walk invisible to others.

Having fasted for three nights and having afterwards pulled
out on the day of the star of Pushya both the right and the left eyes
of a dog, a cat, an owl, and a vdguli (7), one should reduce them to
two kinds of powder. Then having anointed one's own eyes with
this ointment as usual, one can walk invisible to others.

Having fasted for three nights, one should, on the day of the
star of Pushya, prepare a round-headed pin (saldkd) from the
branch of purushaghdti (punndga tree). Then having filled with
ointment (anjana) the skull of any of the animals which roam at
nights, and having inserted that skull in the organ of procreation of
a dead woman, one should burn it. Having taken it out on the day of
the star of Pushya and having anointed one's own eyes with that
ointment, one can walk invisible to others.

Wherever one may happen to see the corpse burnt or just
being burnt of a Brdhman who kept sacrificial fire (while alive),
there one should fast for three nights; and having on the day of the
star of Pushya formed a sack from the garment of the corpse of a
man who has died from natural causes, and having filled the sack
with the ashes of the Brdhman's corpse, one may put on the sack on
one's back, and walk invisible to others.

The slough of a snake filled with the powder of the bones and
marrow or fat of the cow sacrificed during the funeral rites of a
Brdhman, can, when put on the back of cattle, render them
invisible.

The slough of prachaldka (a bird?) filled with the ashes of the
597
Kautilya's Arthashastra

corpse of a man dead from snake-bite, can render beasts (mriga)
invisible.

The slough of a snake (ahi) filled with the powder of the bone
of the knee-joint mixed with that of the tail and dung (purisha) of
an owl and a vdguli (7), can render birds invisible.

Such are the eight kinds of the contrivances causing
invisibility.

* I bow to Bali, son of Virochana; to Sambara acquainted with a
hundred kinds of magic; to Bhandirapdka, Naraka, Nikumbha, and
Kumbha.

* 1 bow to Devala and Ndrada; 1 bow to Sdvarnigdlava; with the
permission of these I cause deep slumber to thee.
* Just as the snakes, known as ajagara (boa-constrictor) fall into
deep slumber, so may the rogues of the army who are very anxious
to keep watch over the village;
* With their thousands of dogs (bhandaka) and hundreds of ruddy
geese and donkeys, fall into deep slumber; I shall enter this house,
and may the dogs be quiet.
* Having bowed to Manu, and having tethered the roguish dogs
(sunakaphelaka), and having also bowed to those gods who are in
heaven, and to Brdhmans among mankind;
* To those who are well versed in their Vedic studies, those who
have attained to Kaildsa (a mountain of god Siva) by observing
penance, and to all prophets, I do cause deep slumber to thee.

The fan (chamari) comes out; may all combinations retire.
Oblation to Manu, O Aliti and Paliti.

The application of the above mantra is as follows:--

Having fasted for three nights, one should, on the fourteenth

598
Kautilya's Arthashastra

day of the dark half of the month, the day being assigned to the star
of Pushya, purchase from a low-caste woman (svapdki)
vilikhdvalekhana (finger nails?). Having kept them in a basket
(kandolika), one should bury them apart in cremation grounds.
Having unearthed them on the next fourteenth day, one should
reduce them to a paste with kumdri (aloe ?) and prepare small pills
out of the paste. Wherever one of the pills is thrown, chanting the
above mantra, there the whole animal life falls into deep slumber.

Following the same procedure, one should separately bury in
cremation grounds three white and three black dart-like hairs
(salyaka) of a porcupine. When, having on the next fourteenth day
taken them out, one throws them together with the ashes of a burnt
corpse, chanting the above mantra, the whole animal life in that
place falls into deep slumber.

* I bow to the goddess Suvarnapushpi and to Brahmdni, to the god
Brdhma, and to Kusadhvaja; 1 bow to all serpents and goddesses; I
bow to all ascetics.

* May all Brahmans and Kshattriyas come under my power; may
all Vaisyas and, Stidras be at my beck and call,

Oblation to thee, O, Amile, Kimile, Vayujdre, Prayoge,
Phake, Kavayusve, Vihdle, and Dantakatake, oblation to thee.

* May the dogs which are anxiously keeping watch over the village
fall into deep and happy slumber; these three white dart-like hairs
of the porcupine are the creation of Brdhma.

* All prophets (siddha) have fallen into deep slumber. I do cause
sleep to the whole village as far as its boundary till the sun rises.
Oblation!

The application of the above mantra is as follows:--

599
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When a man, having fasted for seven nights and secured three
white dart-like hairs of a porcupine, makes on the fourteenth day of
the dark half of the month oblations into the fire with 108 pieces of
the sacrificial fire-wood of khadira (mimosa catechu) and other
trees together with honey and clarified butter chanting the above
mantra, and when, chanting the same mantra, he buries one of the
hairs at the entrance of either a village or a house within it, he
causes the whole animal life therein to fall into deep slumber.

* 1 bow to Bali, the son of Vairochana, to S'atamdya, S'ambara,
Nikumbha, Naraka, Kumbha, Tantukachchha, the great demon;

* To Armdlava, Pramila, Mandolitka, Ghatodbala, to Krishna with
his followers, and to the famous woman, Paulomi.

* Chanting the sacred mantras, I do take the pith or the bone of the
corpse (savasdrika) productive of my desired ends--may S'alaka
demons be victorious; salutation to them; oblation!--May the dogs
which are anxiously keeping watch over the village fall into deep
and happy slumber.

* May all prophets (siddhdrthdh) fall into happy sleep about the
object which we are seeking from sunset to sunrise and till the
attainment of my desired end. Oblation!

The application of the above mantra is as follows:--

Having fasted for four nights and having on the fourteenth
day of the dark half of the month performed animal sacrifice (bali)
in cremation grounds, one should, repeating the above mantra,
collect the pith of a corpse (savasdrika) and keep it in a basket
made of leaves (pattrapauttalikd). When this basket, being pierced
in the centre by a dart-like hair of a porcupine, is buried, chanting
the above mantra, the whole animal life therein falls into deep
slumber.

* 1 take refuge with the god of fire and with all the goddesses
600
Kautilya's Arthashastra

in the ten quarters; may all obstructions vanish and may all things
come under my power. Oblation.

The application of the above mantra is as follows:--

Having fasted for three nights and having on the day of the
star of Pushya prepared twenty-one pieces of sugar-candy, one
should make oblation into the fire with honey and clarified butter;
and having worshipped the pieces of sugar-candy with scents and
garlands of flowers, one should bury them. When, having on the
next day of the star of Pushya unearthed the pieces of sugar-candy,
and chanting the above mantra, one strikes the door-panel of a
house with one piece and throws four pieces in the interior, the
door will open itself.

Having fasted for four nights, one should on the fourteenth
day of the dark half of the month get a figure of a bull prepared
from the bone of a man, and worship it, repeating the above
mantra. Then a cart drawn by two bulls will be brought before the
worshipper who can (mount it and) drive in the sky and tell all that
is connected with the sun and other planets of the sky.

O, Chanddli Kumbhi, Tumba Katuka, and Sdrigha, thou art
possessed of the bhaga of a woman, oblation to thee.

When this mantra is repeated, the door will open and the
inmates fall into sleep.

Having fasted for three nights, one should on the day of the
star of Pushya fill with soil the skull of a man killed with weapons
or put to the gallows, and, planting in it valli (vallari 7) plants,
should irrigate them with water. Having taken up the grown-up
plants on the next day of the star of Pushya (i.e., after 27 days), one
should manufacture a rope from them. When this rope is cut into

601
Kautilya's Arthashastra

two pieces before a drawn bow or any other shooting machine, the
string of those machines will be suddenly cut into two pieces.

When the slough of a water-snake (udakdhi) is filled with the
breathed-out dirt (uchchhvdsamrittika?) of a man or woman (and is
held before the face and nose of any person), it causes those organs
to swell.

When the sack-like skin of the abdomen of a dog or a boar is
filled with the breathed-out dirt (uchchhvdsamrittika) of a man or
woman and is bound (to the body of a man) with the ligaments of a
monkey, it causes the man's body to grow in width and length
(dndha),

When the figure of an enemy carved out of rdjavriksha
(cassia fistula) is besmeared with the bile of a brown cow killed
with a weapon on the fourteenth day of the dark half of the month,
it causes blindness (to the enemy).

Having fasted for four nights and offered animal sacrifice
(bali) on the fourteenth day of the dark half of the month, one
should get a few bolt-like pieces prepared from the bone of a man
put to the gallows. When one of these pieces is put in the feces or
urine (of an enemy), it causes (his) body to grow in size (dndha);
and when the same piece is buried under the feet or seat (of an
enemy), it causes death by consumption; and when it is buried in
the shop, fields, or the house (of an enemy), it causes him loss of
livelihood.

The same process of smearing and burying holds good with
the bolt-like pieces (kilaka) prepared from vidyuddanda tree.
* When the nail of the little finger (punarnavam avdchinam 7)
nimba (nimba melia), kama (bdellium), madhu (celtis orientalis),
the hair of a monkey, and the bone of a man, all wound round with

602
Kautilya's Arthashastra

the garment of a dead man.

* Is buried in the house of, or is trodden down by, a man, that man
with his wife, children and wealth will not survive three fortnights.
* When the nail of the little finger, nimba (nimba melia), kdma
(bdellium), madhu (celtis orientalis), and the bone of a man dead
from natural causes are buried under the feet of,

* Or near the house of, a man or in the vicinity of the camp of an
army, of a village, or of a city, that man (or the body of men) with
wife, children, and wealth will not survive three fortnights.

* When the hair of a sheep and a monkey, of a cat and mongoose,
of Brdhmans, of low-caste men (svapdka), and of a crow and an
owl is collected,

* And is made into a paste with faeces (vishtdvakshunna), its
application brings on instantaneous death. When a flower garland
of a dead body, the ferment derived from burning corpse, the hair
of a mangoose,

* And the skin of scorpion, a bee, and a snake are buried under the
feet of a man, that man will lose all human appearance so long as
they are not removed.

Having fasted for three nights and having on the day of the
star of Pushya planted gunja seeds in the skull, filled with soil, of a
man killed with weapons or put to the gallows, one should irrigate
it with water. On the new or full moon day with the star of Pushya,
one should take out the plants when grown, and prepare out of
them circular pedestals (mandalikd). When vessels containing food
and water are placed on these pedestals, the food stuffs will never
decrease in quantity.

When a grand procession is being celebrated at night, one
should cut off the nipples of the udder of a dead cow and burn them
in a torch-light flame. A fresh vessel should be plastered in the
interior with the paste prepared from these burnt nipples, mixed
with the urine of a bull. When this vessel, taken round the village in

603
Kautilya's Arthashastra

circumambulation from right to left, is placed below, the whole
quantity of the butter produced by all the cows (of the village) will
collect itself in the vessel.

On the fourteenth day of the dark half of the month combined
with the star of Pushya, one should thrust into the organ of
procreation of a dog or heat an iron seal (kataldyasam mudrikam)
and take it up when it falls down of itself. When, with this seal in
hand, a collection of fruits is called out, it will come of itself
(before the magician).

* By the power of mantras, drugs, and other magical

performances, one should protect one's own people and hurt those
of the enemy.
[Thus ends Chapter III, “The Application of Medicine and
Mantras,” in Book XIV, “Secret Means,” of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-eighth chapter from the
beginning. ]

CHAPTER IV. REMEDIES AGAINST THE INJURIES OF
ONE'S OWN ARMY.

WITH regard to remedies against poisons and poisonous
compounds applied by an enemy against one's own army or
people:--

When the things that are meant for the king's use, inclusive of
the limbs of women, as well as the things of the army are washed in
the tepid water prepared from the decoction of sleshmdtaki
(sebesten or cordia myk), kapi (emblica officinalis), madanti (7),
danta (ivory), satha (Citron tree), gojigi (gojihva ?--elephantophus
scaber), visha (aconitum ferox), pdtali (bignonia suave olens),
bala (lida cardifolia et rombifolia), syondka (bignonia indica),

604
Kautilya's Arthashastra

punarnava (7), sveta (andropogon aciculatum), and tagara
(tabernemontana coronaria), mixed with chandana (sandal) and
the blood of saldvriki (jackal), it removes the bad effects of poison.

The mixture prepared from the biles of prishata (red-spotted
deer), nakula (mongoose), nilakantha (peacock), and godhd
(alligator), with charcoal powder (mashirdji), combined with the
sprouts (agra) of sinduvdra (vitex trifolia), tagara
(taberncemontana coronaria, varuna)(teriandium indicum),
tanduliyaka (amaranthus polygamus), and sataparva (convolvulus
repens) together with pinditaka (vangueria spinosa) removes the
effects of the mixture of madana.

Among the decoctions of the roots of srigdla (bignonia
indica), vinna (7), madana, sinduvdra (vitex trifolia), tagara
(taberneemontana coronaria), and valli, (a creeper 7), any one or
all mixed with milk removes, when drunk, the effects of the
mixture of madana.

The stinking oil extracted from kaidarya (vangueria spinosa)
removes madness.

The mixture prepared from priyangu (panic seed) and
naktamdla (galedupa arborea) removes, when applied through the
nose, leprosy.

The mixture prepared from kushtha (costus) and lodhra
(symplocus) removes consumption.

The mixture prepared from katuphala (glelina arborea),
dravanti (anthericum tuberosum), and vilanga (a kind of seed)
removes, when applied through the nose, headache and other
diseases of the head.

605
Kautilya's Arthashastra

The application of the mixture prepared from priyangu (panic
seed), manjishtha (rubia wmanjit), tagara (tabernemontana
coronaria), ldkshdrasa (the juice or essence of lac) madhuka (7),
haridrd (turmeric), and kshaudra (honey) to persons who have
fallen senseless by being beaten by a rope, by falling into water, or
by eating poison, or by being whipped, or by falling, resuscitates
them.

The proportion of a dose is as much as an aksha (7) to men;
twice as much to cows and horses; and four times as much to
elephants and camels.

A round ball (mani) prepared from the above mixture and
containing gold (rukma) in its centre, removes the the effects due to
any kind of poison.

A round ball (mani) prepared from the wood of asvattha (holy
fig tree) growing wound round with the plants such as jivanti (a
medicinal plant), sveta (andropogan aciculatum) the flower of
mushkaka (a species of tree), and vanaddka (epidendrum
tesseloides), removes the effects due to any kind of poison.

* The sound of trumpets painted with the above mixture destroys
poison; whoever looks at a flag or banner besmeared with the
above mixture will get rid of poison.

* Having applied these remedies to secure the safety of himself and
his army, a king should make use of poisonous smokes and other
mixtures to vitiate water against his enemy.

[Thus ends Chapter IV, "Remedies against the Injuries of One's
Own Army," in Book XIV, "Secret Means," of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya. End of the hundred and forty-ninth chapter from the
beginning. With this, ends the fourteenth Book “Secret Means,” of
the Arthasdstra of Kautilya.]

606
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book XV, "The Plan of a Treatise”

CHAPTER I. PARAGRAPHICAL DIVISIONS OF THIS
TREATISE.

THE subsistence of mankind is termed artha, wealth; the
earth which contains mankind is also termed artha, wealth; that
science which treats of the means of acquiring and maintaining the
earth is the Arthasdstra, Science of Polity.

It contains thirty-two paragraphical divisions; the book
(adhikarana), contents (vidhdna), suggestion of similar facts
(yoga), the meaning of a word (paddrtha), the purport of reason
(hetvartha), mention of a fact in brief (uddesa), mention of a fact in
detail (nirdesa), guidance (upadesa), quotation, (apadesa),
application (atidesa) the place of reference (pradesa), simile
(upamdna), implication (arthdpatti), doubt (samsaya), reference to
similar procedure (presanga), contrariety (viparyaya), ellipsis
(vakyasesha), acceptance (anumata), explanation (vydkhaydna),
derivation (nirvachana), illustration (nidarsana), exception
(apavarga), the author’s own technical terms (svasanjd), prima
facie view (piirva paksha), rejoinder (uttrapaksha), conclusion
(ekdnta), reference to a subsequent portion (andgatdvekshana),
reference to a previous portion (atikrantdvekshana), command
(niyoga), alternative  (vikalpa), compounding together
(samuchchaya), and determinable fact (iihya).

That portion of a work in which a subject or topic is treated of
is a book, as for example: “This Arthasastra or Science of Polity
has been made as a compendium of all those Arthasdstras which, as
a guidance to kings in acquiring and maintaining the earth, have

607
Kautilya's Arthashastra

been written by ancient teachers.”

A brief description of the matter contained in a book is its
contents, as: "the end of learning; association with the aged;
control of the organs of sense; the creation of ministers, and the
like."

Pointing out similar facts by the use of such words as ‘These
and the like,” is suggestion of similar facts; for example: "The
world consisting of the four castes and the four religious divisions
and the like."

The sense which a word has to convey is its meaning; for
example, with regard to the words muilahara: "Whoever squanders
the wealth acquired for him by his father and grandfather is a
miilahara, prodigal son.”

What is meant to prove an assertion is the purport of reason;
for example: "For charity and enjoyment of life depend upon
wealth.”

Saying in one word is mentioning a fact in brief; for example:
"It is the control of the organs of sense on which success in learning
and discipline depend.”

Explanation in detached words is the mentioning of a fact in
detail; for example: "Absence of discrepancy in the perception of
sound, touch, colour, flavour, and scent by means of the ear, the
skin, the eyes, the tongue, and the nose, is what is meant by
restraint of the organs of sense."

Such statement as "Thus one should live,” is guidance; for

example: "Not violating the laws of righteousness and economy, he
should live.”

608
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Such statement, as ‘he says thus,’ is a quotation; for example:
"The school of Manu say that a king should make his assembly of
ministers consist of twelve ministers; the school of Brihaspati say
that it should consist of sixteen ministers; the school of Usans say it
should contain twenty members; but Kautilya holds that it should
contain as many ministers as the need of the kingdom requires.”

When a rule dwelt upon in connection with a question is said
to apply to another question also, it is termed application; for
example: "What is said of a debt not repaid holds good with failure
to make good a promised gift."

Establishing a fact by what is to be treated of later on is “place
of reference; for example: "By making use of such strategic means
as conciliation, bribery, dissension, and coercion, as we shall
explain in connection with calamities.”

Proving an unseen thing or course of circumstances by what
has been seen is simile; for example: "Like a father his son, he
should protect those of his subjects who have passed the period of
the remission of taxes."

What naturally follows from a statement of facts, though not
spoken of in plain terms, is implication; for example, "Whoever
has full experience of the affairs of this world should, through the
medium of the courtiers and other friends, win the favour of a king
who is of good character and worthy sovereign. It follows from this
that no one should seek the favour of a king through the medium of
the king's enemies.”

When the statement of a reason is equally applicable to two
cases of circumstances, it is termed doubt; for example: "Which of
the two should a conqueror march against: one whose subjects are
impoverished and greedy, or one whose subjects are oppressed?”

609
Kautilya's Arthashastra

When the nature of procedure to be specified in connection
with a thing is said to be equal to what has already been specified in
connection with another, it is termed reference to similar
procedure; for example: "On the lands allotted to him for the
purpose of carrying on agricultural operations, he should do as
before.”

The inference of a reverse statement from a positive
statement is termed contrariety; for example: "The reverse will be
the appearance of a king who is not pleased with the messenger."

That portion of a sentence which is omitted, though necessary
to convey a complete sense, is ellipsis; for example: "With his
feathers plucked off, he will lose his power to move." Here ‘like a
bird’ is omitted.

When the opinion of another person is stated but not refuted,
it is acceptance of that opinion; for example: “Wings, front, and
reserve, is the form of an array of the army according to the school
of Usanas.”

Description in detail is explanation; for example: "Especially
amongst assemblies and confederacies of kings possessing the
characteristics of assemblies, quarrel is due to gambling ; and
destruction of persons due to the quarrel. Hence, among evil
propensities, gambling is the worst evil, since it renders the king
powerless for activity.”

Stating the derivative sense of a word, is derivation; for
example: "That which throws off (vyasyati) a king from his
prosperous career is propensity (vyasana).

The mentioning of a fact to illustrate a statement, is
illustration; for example: "In war with a superior, the inferior will
be reduced to the same condition as that of a foot-soldier fighting

610
Kautilya's Arthashastra

with an elephant.”

Removal of an undesired implication from a statement is
exception; for example: "A king may allow his enemy's army to be
present close to his territory, unless he suspects of the existence of
any internal trouble.”

Words which are not used by others in the special sense in
which they are used by the author are his own technical terms; for
example: "He who is close to the conqueror’s territory is the first
member; next to him comes the second member; and next to the
second comes the third."

The citation of another's opinion to be refuted, is prima facie
view; for example: "Of the two evils, the distress of the king and
that of his minister, the latter is worse.”

Settled opinion is rejoinder; for example: "The distress of the
king is worse, since everything depends upon him; for the king is
the central pivot, as it were."

That which is universal in its application is conclusion or an
established fact: for example: "A king should ever be ready for
manly effort.”

Drawing attention to a later chapter is reference to a
subsequent portion; for example: "We shall explain balance and
weights in the chapter, ‘The Superintendent of Weights and
Measures."

The statement that it has been already spoken of is reference
to a previous portion: for example, "The qualifications of a

minister have already been described.”

‘Thus and not otherwise’ is command; for example: "Hence

611
Kautilya's Arthashastra

he should be taught the laws of righteousness and wealth, but not
unrighteousness and non-wealth."

“This or that’ is alternative; for example: "or daughters born
of approved marriage (dharmaviviha).”

‘Both with this and that’ is compounding together, for
example: "Whoever is begotten by a man on his wife is agnatic
both to the father and the father's relatives.”

That which is to be determined after consideration is
determinable fact; for example: "Experts shall determine the
validity or invalidity of gifts so that neither the giver nor the
receiver is likely to be hurt thereby.”

* Thus this Sdstra, conforming to these paragraphic divisions is
composed as a guide to acquire and secure this and the other world.
* In the light of this Sdstra one cannot only set on foot righteous,
economical, and aesthetical acts and maintain them, but also put
down unrighteous, uneconomical and displeasing acts.

* This Sdstra has been made by him who from intolerance
(of misrule) quickly rescued the scriptures and the science of
weapons and the earth which had passed to the Nanda king.

[Thus ends the Chapter I, ‘Paragraphic divisions of the
Treatise’ in the fifteenth Book, ‘Plan of Treatise.” This is the one
hundred and fiftieth chapter from the first chapter of the entire
work. The fifteenth book, ‘Plan of Treatise, of the Arthasdstra of
Kautilya is thus brought to a close.]

* Having seen discrepancies in many ways on the part of the
writers of commentaries on the Sdstras, Vishnu Gupta himself has
made (this) S#tra and commentary.

From: Kautilya. Arthashastra. Translated by R. Shamasastry.
Bangalore: Government Press, 1915, 515-520.

612
Kautilya's Arthashastra

613
