Kaudilya's

Arthashastra

Ghanstated inte English by

R. Shamasastry
Kautilya's
Arthashastra

Translated into English by
R. Shamasastry
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Table of Contents

Book I, "Concerning Discipline" .....occuv eee seer seer eres seers 3
Book Il, "The Duties of Government Superintendents" ...........cccoveee. 60
Book Il, "Concerning Law" ......uce eevee reece seers ee senses seen se eens 213
Book IV, "The Removal of Thorns" ......o.oo ieee 285
Book V, "The Conduct of Courtiers” .......ouummmmmnecr ie ceesreeeeee cree 336
Book VI: The Source of Sovereign States .....cccvev verve eves seer ecceeees 362
Book VII, "The End of the Six-Fold Policy" ....ccooovevrviree cere 370
Book VIII: Concerning Vices and Calamities......cccvevreeeveieercceencceennnes 467
Book IX, "The Work of an Invader" .........oo cover eee cece eee 490
Book X, "Relating to War .......oe cece serene sees 521
Book XI, "The Conduct of Corporations” ......ccecvvevreie sree sever enceeenes 541
Book XII, "Concerning a Powerful Enemy" .......ccceevvee eves seceescceeenes 547
Book XIII, "Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress" .......cocvvvevvrcveennnes 563
Book XIV, "Secret Means"... ccc eae eee 584
Book XV, "The Plan of @ Treatise"... eee cere eee 607
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Book I, "Concerning Discipline”

CHAPTER I. THE LIFE OF A KING

Om.
Salutation to Sukra and Brihaspati.

This Arthasdstra is made as a compendium of almost all the
Arthasdstras, which, in view of acquisition and maintenance of the
earth, have been composed by ancient teachers.

Of this work, the following are the contents by sections and
books:

BOOK I. Concerning Discipline.

The end of Sciences; association with the aged; restraint of
the organs of sense; the creation of ministers; the creation of
councillors and priests; ascertaining by temptations purity or
impurity in the character of ministers; the institution of spies.
Protection of parties for or against one's own cause in one's own
state; winning over the factions for or against an enemy's cause in
an enemy's state; the business of council meeting; the mission of
envoys; protection of princes; the conduct of a prince kept under
restraint; treatment of a prince kept under restraint; the duties of a
king; duty towards the harem; personal safety.

BOOK II. The Duties of Government Superintendents.

3
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Formation of villages; division of land; construction of forts;
buildings within the fort; the duty of the chamberlain; the business
of collection of revenue by the collector-general; the business of
keeping up accounts in the office of accountants; detection of what
is embezzled by government servants out of state-revenue;
examination of the conduct of Government servants; the procedure
of forming royal writs; the superintendent of the treasury;
examination of gems that are to be entered into the treasury;
conducting mining operations and manufacture; the superintendent
of gold; the duties of the state goldsmith in the high road; the
superintendent of store-house; the superintendent of commerce;
the superintendent of forest produce; the superintendent of the
armoury; the superintendent of weights and measures;
measurement of space and time; the superintendent of tolls; the
superintendent of weaving; the superintendent of agriculture; the
superintendent of liquor; the superintendent of slaughter-house; the
superintendent of prostitutes; the superintendent of ships; the
superintendent of cows; the superintendent of horses; the
superintendent of elephants; the superintendent of chariots; the
superintendent of infantry; the duty of the commander-in-chief ,
the superintendent of passports; the superintendent of pasture
lands; the duty of revenue collectors; spies in the guise of
householders, merchants, and ascetics; the duty of a city
superintendent.

BOOK III. Concerning Law.

Determination of forms of agreements; determination of legal
disputes; concerning marriage; division of inheritance; buildings;
non-performance of agreements; recovery of debts; concerning
deposits; rules regarding slaves and labourers; co-operative
undertakings; rescision of purchase and sale; resumption of gifts,

4
Kautilya's Arthashastra

and sale without ownership; ownership; robbery; defamation;
assault; gambling and betting, and miscellaneous.

BOOK IV. Removal of Thorns.

Protection of artisans; protection of merchants; remedies
against national calamities; suppression of the wicked living by
foul means; detection of youths of criminal tendency by ascetic
spies; seizure of criminals on suspicion or in the very act;
examination of sudden death; trial and torture to elicit confession;
protection of all kinds of government departments; fines in lieu of
mutilation of limbs; death with or without torture; sexual
intercourse with immature girls; atonement for violating justice.

BOOK V. Conduct of Courtiers.

Concerning the awards of punishments; replenishment of the
treasury; concerning subsistence to government servants; the
conduct of a courtier; time-serving; consolidation of the kingdom
and absolute sovereignty.

BOOK VI. The Source of Sovereign States.

The elements of sovereignty; concerning peace and exertion.

BOOK VII. The End of Sixfold Policy.

The sixfold policy; determination of deterioration, stagnation,
and progress; the nature of alliance; the character of equal, inferior
and superior kings; forms of agreement made by an inferior king;
neutrality after proclaiming war or after concluding a treaty of

5
Kautilya's Arthashastra

peace; marching after proclaiming war or after making peace; the
march of combined powers; considerations about marching against
an assailable enemy and a strong enemy; causes leading to the
dwindling, greed and disloyalty of the army; considerations about
the combination of powers; the march of combined powers;
agreement of peace with or without definite terms; and peace with
renegades; peace and war by adopting the double policy; the
attitude of an assailable enemy; friends that deserve help;
agreement for the acquisition of a friend or gold; agreement of
peace for the acquisition of land; agreement for undertaking a
work; considerations about an enemy in the rear; recruitment of
lost power; measures conducive to peace with a strong and
provoked enemy; the attitude of a conquered enemy; the attitude of
a conquered king; making peace and breaking it; the conduct of a
Madhyama king; of a neutral king and of a circle of states.

BOOK VIII Concerning Vices and Calamities.

The aggregate of the calamities of the elements of
sovereignty; considerations about the troubles of the king and his
kingdom; the aggregate of the troubles of men; the group of
molestations; the group of obstructions; and the group of financial
troubles; the group of troubles of the army; and the group of
troubles of a friend.

BOOK IX. The Work of an Invader.

The knowledge of power, place, time, strength and weakness;
the time of invasion; the time for recruiting the army; the form of
equipment; the work of arraying a rival force; considerations of
annoyance in the rear; remedies against internal and external
troubles; consideration about loss of men, wealth and profit.

6
Kautilya's Arthashastra

Internal and external dangers; persons associated with traitors and
enemies; doubts about wealth and harm; and success to be obtained
by the employment of alternative strategic means.

BOOK X. Relating to War.

Encampment; march of the camp; protection of the army in
times of distress and attack; forms of treacherous fights;
encouragement to one's own army; the fight between one's own
and enemy's armies; battle-fields; the work of infantry, cavalry,
chariots and elephants; distinctive array of troops in respect of
wings, flanks and front; distinction between strong and weak
troops; battles with infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants; the
array of the army like a staff, a snake, a circle or in detached order;
the array of the army against that of an enemy.

BOOK XI. The Conduct of Corporations.

Causes of dissension; secret punishment.

BOOK XII. Concerning a Powerful Enemy.

The duties of a messenger; battle of intrigue; slaying the
commander-in-chief, and inciting a circle of states; spies with
weapons, fire, and poison; destruction of supply of stores, and of
granaries; capture of the enemy by means of secret contrivances or
by means of the army; and complete victory.

BOOK XIII. Strategic Means to Capture a Fortress.

Sowing the seeds of dissension; enticement of kings by secret
contrivances; the work of spies in a siege; the operation of a siege;
